{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello again everyone.\par
Today we'll start talking about continuous distributions,\par
and the first distribution that we'll discuss\par
will be the uniform distribution.\par
And\par
to motivate a little bit, to explain it,\par
it's denoted by U[a,b],\par
and that's for a which is less than b.\par
That's the uniform distribution over this interval a to b.\par
And if x is in this interval,\par
if x is between a and b,\par
then the probability of x is the same.\par
It's equal to all values in this interval.\par
And for values effects outside the interval\par
the probability is going to be zero.\par
It'll never happen.\par
So, what is the probability density function, the PDF?\par
It's going to be c inside the interval\par
and outside the interval it's going to be zero.\par
And we can see it on the graph here.\par
Between a and b there's a constant density\par
of probability,\par
and outside the interval the probability is zero, okay?\par
And the question of course is what is this constant, c?\par
So we know that for this to be a distribution\par
when we integrate it from minus infinity to infinity\par
(mumbles) create a density.\par
In fact, it should be one.\par
But, this integral is only this integral between a and b,\par
and it's only this interval.\par
And in this region the area is c times b minus a.\par
So, this integral is going to be c times b minus a,\par
just the area underneath the curve here.\par
And that tells us because c times b minus a should be one\par
that this constant c is one over b minus a.\par
So going back here, what is the PDF?\par
It's going to be inside the interval.\par
It's going to be one over b minus a\par
and outside it's going to be zero.\par
So\par
if you want to see how it is just in the program.\par
Okay, so here is the code\par
that is available for you to use,\par
and if you run it then what you'll get\par
is you'll get that.\par
And you can see here we have a uniform distribution\par
between four and six in this case.\par
And\par
because the length of the interval is two,\par
six minus four, the height is about half.\par
And I can change it.\par
For example, instead of four to six\par
I change it to maybe four to eight,\par
sorry, four to eight.\par
Then the interval is going to be twice as wide\par
but it's going to be half as high.\par
It's always going to be such\par
that the width times the height is going to be one.\par
Here the width is four, the height is a quarter.\par
If we make the width very small,\par
for example if we make it go from two to 2.1,\par
then we'll see that it's here.\par
And we also see that\par
because we limit the height to one\par
here now the width is .1 so the height should be 10.\par
So this not sufficient,\par
so we need to enlarge the maximum height here.\par
Can make it instead of one\par
we can make it maybe 15, something like that.\par
So we can make it 15,\par
and then you'll see the interval it goes to one.\par
So as the interval\par
becomes narrower,\par
as the domain a to b becomes narrower\par
the height is going to go up to increase\par
and eventually it can go all the way to infinity, alright?\par
So let's go back to the slides.\par
So this is the PDF,\par
and what we want to check\par
is that this did a distribution.\par
And\par
we need to check two things.\par
One is that it's\par
not negative,\par
and it's very clear because it's zero here\par
and here it's positive.\par
And that the integral is,\par
so this okay,\par
and that the integral equals one,\par
and that is done actually by our choice of c\par
we made sure that the integral is going to be one,\par
so that is okay, as well.\par
Alright.\par
When does the uniform distribution happen?\par
The uniform distribution is so simple\par
you think it might happen a lot,\par
but in fact it doesn't happen so often,\par
although it does happen.\par
So for example if you are,\par
if you go to catch a bus or a train, then\par
assuming that\par
the departure times are maybe evenly distributed,\par
then if you look at how many minutes after the hour\par
that's going to be some random number\par
that is uniformly distributed\par
between one and 60.\par
And if you correspondingly\par
look for the wait time for your bus,\par
then maybe you arrive,\par
you arrive ...\par
Maybe the buses leave at uniform intervals.\par
So, you arrive at a random point,\par
so the amount of time you'll have to wait\par
before the bus leaves\par
is again going to be uniformly distributed.\par
If you look at the location of a defect on a\par
electrical chip, that's often considered\par
to be uniformly distributed.\par
A location of a molecule in space uniformly distributed,\par
and there are some more, okay?\par
So, what is the cumulative distribution function\par
of the uniform?\par
So we need to look at\par
at F of x, capital F of x,\par
which is the integral of f of u\par
for minus infinity to x,\par
and we are going to break it by regions.\par
So here is F of x,\par
and we're going to look at what happens\par
when x is less than a,\par
when x is between a and b,\par
and when x is larger than b.\par
So if x is less than or equal to a,\par
namely it's some place here,\par
then we have the integral for minus infinity\par
to x of zero,\par
because before x f is\par
zero of 0 du,\par
and that's going to be zero, okay?\par
And in particular ...\par
So if we do F(x) here\par
then we see that in F right in red\par
it's going to be zero up to here.\par
And in particular if we look at this point,\par
F of a, capital F of a, is going to be zero.\par
So, the cumulative distribution function\par
evaluated at point a is zero,\par
because everything until then the density was zero, okay?\par
Now, if we look at the range between a and b\par
then that's going to be a point some place here\par
and the value is going to be,\par
the cumulative distribution function is going to be,\par
F of a, the integral up to a,\par
plus the integral from a to x\par
of the density function,\par
which is in this range of one over b minus a du, okay?\par
But F of a we saw was zero.\par
We saw that before.\par
That was zero.\par
And this integral here is going to be the shaded region here\par
underneath the curve, on the curve.\par
So it's this light blue area here.\par
And what is its area?\par
The width is x minus a,\par
and the height is one over b minus a.\par
So the area is going to be x minus a\par
divided by b minus a, okay?\par
And in particular, so\par
if you evaluate this at the very last point\par
of this region at b,\par
then we get that is going to be\par
b minus a divided by b minus a, which is one.\par
So that tells us that F of b,\par
the cumulative distribution function and b is one,\par
and the curve is going to be the red line\par
connecting those two points.\par
It's going to be that, okay?\par
And then if we look at\par
F of x beyond b,\par
so we look at what happens for x bigger than b,\par
namely x is here,\par
then it's going to be F of b\par
plus the interval from b to x of zero, because\par
the PDF is again zero here of zero du.\par
And F of b we said was one,\par
and this integral is zero,\par
so it's going to be one,\par
and therefore this function will continue like that.\par
So the red line is the CDF of the uniform distribution.\par
So to see it a little more interactively,\par
let's go to Python.\par
Here again is the program that you could use.\par
If we run it we'll get the following.\par
So here\par
is\par
a uniform distribution,\par
the PDF, and the cumulative distribution function.\par
So see here.\par
So you can see it started zero and goes to one,\par
a ranges from a to be and then stays at one.\par
And\par
if we change the distribution,\par
for example if we change the range, make it\par
let's say from zero to,\par
from zero to 10,\par
then this is the uniform distribution.\par
And to arise from zero to one at that point\par
if we make it much smaller,\par
for example from zero\par
to zero, from zero to 0.5,\par
like that, then the distribution\par
because the height, the width is half\par
the height is going to be two, which is not sufficient.\par
So we're going to enlarge\par
the range here to make it two, or make it three maybe.\par
So here is\par
the PDF density function\par
and here is the cumulative distribution function.\par
It goes from zero to one and stays at one, okay?\par
Okay, now given the CDF\par
we can calculate interval probabilities fairly easily.\par
So if,\par
for example if\par
alpha and beta are between a and b like that.\par
So here we have a and then alpha\par
and beta and b,\par
then if we consider the interval\par
between alpha and beta\par
and we ask what is the probability,\par
namely what's the probability of this interval here?\par
And notice that we are looking at\par
for example the open interval on the left\par
and closed on the right,\par
and that's because it really doesn't matter\par
because as we know\par
for continuous distribution\par
individual points make no difference.\par
So we could've taken the closed interval from here to here\par
or open interval.\par
They would all be the same.\par
All of them the probability is going to be\par
F of beta minus F of alpha, okay?\par
And F of beta in this case\par
is going to be beta minus alpha\par
divided by b minus alpha.\par
And F of alpha is going to be alpha minus a ...\par
I apologize, this was beta minus a divided by b minus a,\par
and F of alpha is going to be alpha minus a\par
divided again by b minus a,\par
and that's going to give us\par
beta minus alpha divided by b minus a.\par
And we can also see it in this\par
picture here,\par
because the tall area is b minus a\par
and it's uniform over that,\par
and we're asking what's the probability\par
that falls in this region?\par
So it's going to be the length of this interval\par
divided by its whole length.\par
So it's beta minus alpha\par
divided by b minus a.\par
Okay here.\par
And if you you look at the interval from beta to infinity,\par
so it's the region that goes from here till infinity,\par
then that probability is going to be\par
F of infinity minus F of beta,\par
and F of infinity is one\par
and F of beta is beta minus alpha divided by b minus a,\par
sorry, beta minus a divided by b minus a,\par
and that's going to be just b minus beta\par
divided by b minus a.\par
And\par
again, we can see it from here, because\par
we're looking at the interval from beta to infinity,\par
but everything outside is zero probability.\par
So, we're just asking what's the probability\par
of this interval here from beta to b?\par
It's length is b minus beta\par
out of the whole length, which is b minus a.\par
So the probability because everything is uniform\par
the probability is b minus beta\par
divided by b minus a, okay?\par
And if we look at the probability of an individual element,\par
alpha for example, just this point here,\par
then it's going to be F of alpha\par
minus F of alpha, which is zero,\par
because individual elements have zero probability.\par
Alright.\par
So next let's look at the mean and the variance\par
of the uniform distribution.\par
So first let's consider a slightly simpler case.\par
Let's look at the uniform distribution\par
between zero and 1, okay?\par
So what is the expected value of x\par
is the interval of x,\par
and then in this range f of x is just one,\par
because b minus a is one.\par
So it's the integral of x dx,\par
and that's just x square over two\par
between one and zero, which is half.\par
It's clearly not surprising\par
we have a uniform distribution between zero and one\par
the expected value is just the middle, which is a half.\par
What is the expected value for x square?\par
It's the integral of x square between zero and one,\par
and again, it's because f of x is one.\par
So it's this integral, which is x cube over three\par
between one and zero, which is 1/3.\par
And what is the variance?\par
It's the expected value of x squared\par
minus the expected value of x squared,\par
and that's going to be 1/3 minus 1/4,\par
which is one over 12.\par
And what is the standard deviation?\par
It's the square root of that,\par
which is one over two squared of three,\par
which is roughly 0.29.\par
So\par
again, this kind of makes sense, because\par
the mean is half,\par
and we're looking at\par
to see how far we're going to be from a half.\par
We're going to be somewhere\par
between zero and a half from a half.\par
The average of zero and 1/2 is 1/4.\par
But, because we're looking at\par
the expected value of x square or the difference square,\par
it's going to tilt it a little bit away from zero.\par
So instead of 1/4 we get 0.29 on the average, okay?\par
Alright.\par
And\par
finally\par
we want to see what happens not just for the\par
uniform distribution between zero and one, but for a general\par
uniform distribution.\par
So, let Y be distributed uniformly between a and b.\par
Then\par
Y is equal to b minus a times X plus a,\par
as we have seen before,\par
and you can observe that when X is equal to zero\par
Y is going to be, this is going to be zero\par
and Y is going to be a.\par
And when X is going to be equal\par
to one, this is going to be b minus a plus a,\par
so it's going to be b.\par
So as X ranges from zero to one uniformly,\par
this will range from\par
from a to b uniformly, okay?\par
Now the expected value for Y\par
is the expected value therefore for b minus a\par
times the expectation of X plus a\par
by the linearity of expectation, okay?\par
And that's going to be ...\par
And because the expected value of X is a half\par
that's going to be b minus a over two plus a,\par
which is a plus b over two.\par
Again, what we would've expected\par
because it's a uniform distribution between a and b there,\par
which is going to be\par
just the mean point between them, a plus b over two.\par
And what is the variance of Y?\par
So it's the variance of b minus a times X plus a,\par
which\par
as we know is going to be ...\par
Adding a constant as we have seen\par
does not change the variance,\par
and when we multiply random variables by some constant\par
the variance changes by this constant square,\par
so it's going to be b minus a square\par
times the variance of X.\par
And remember that the variance of X was one over 12,\par
so this is going to be b minus a squared divided by 12.\par
And the standard deviation\par
is going to be just the square root of that,\par
which is 0.29,\par
times the difference between b and a, okay?\par
So this is the variance of the uniform distribution.\par
So to summarize, we discussed the uniform distribution\par
denoted by U[a,b] for a less than b,\par
and the PDF was a constant one over b minus a\par
for x and the interval between a and b\par
and zero outside that interval.\par
And this cumulative distribution function was zero up to a\par
and then went up linearly from zero to one\par
when x was equal to b\par
and was stated one beyond b.\par
And the mean was a plus b over two.\par
The variance was the difference square divided by 12,\par
and the standard deviation\par
was the square root of that, okay?\par
And what are we going to do next?\par
We're going to discuss the exponential distribution.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
Let X ~ U[0,1]. Which of the following statements is true about the probability density function, f(x)?\par
\par
\tab\par
f(1) = 1\par
\par
\tab\par
f(0) = 0\par
\par
\tab\par
f(x) = 1, \f1\u8704?\f0  x\par
\par
\tab\par
f(0) \f1\u8800?\f0  f(1)\par
\par
Submit\lang9\par
}
 