{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello and welcome back.\par
So now, that we have introduced sets\par
and saw how to visualize them,\par
we want to start talking about set relations.\par
And specifically, we'll generalize some relations\par
between numbers and we'll talk about equality\par
between sets, intersections of sets, and subsets.\par
There are many types of relations.\par
And if you look at human relations, for example,\par
they can be quite complex.\par
So, what we'll do is, we'll start with something simple\par
which is our relationship between numbers\par
and specifically, we'll look at equality\par
and less than or equal and strictly less than.\par
And we'll generalize them to sets,\par
so that's what is called for this lecture.\par
So carrying the analogy with humans, just slightly further\par
We know that all men are created equal,\par
so we're going to start with equality between sets.\par
And, so,\par
This, as we said, will generalize equality of numbers.\par
So, two sets A and B are said to be equal,\par
which we'll denote by A equal B\par
if they're exactly the same elements.\par
So for example, zero-one and one zero\par
these two sets have exactly the same elements\par
zero and one and therefore they're equal.\par
And if we want to show that using Venn diagrams\par
we can show here is the set A and here is the set B\par
and it has to be that they have exactly the same elements\par
and that means that there are no elements that\par
are in A but not in B, so this region is empty.\par
And likewise, there are no elements that in B\par
but not in A, so this region is empty too.\par
So, this is how we denote it\par
and where these two sets need to be empty.\par
But if we don't want to write the empty set,\par
or even write it twice then what we can do\par
is just write the two sets, we can draw\par
them on top of each other like this, write A equal to B\par
and that will denote the two sets are the same.\par
But, unlike men, all sets are not created equal\par
and are sets that are different.\par
So if A and B are not equal, they're called different\par
and they're noted by A not equal to B,\par
for example, the set zero-one\par
is not equal to the set one-two\par
because they don't have the same elements.\par
This one has zero-one, this one has one-two.\par
So they are different and if you want to draw\par
using a Venn diagram, we can draw it like that\par
and there has to be an element that is in A but not in B\par
or an element in B but not in A, like that,\par
so at least one of these two regions must be not empty.\par
So that's how we denote with Venn diagram\par
that the two sets are different.\par
So, I have a small quiz about equality in sets.\par
So, what does set equality have to,\par
have in common with trust?\par
And the answer is that both set equality and trust\par
are hard to build but easy to destroy.\par
And the reason is, to get equality\par
all elements must be identical.\par
So, for example, one-two-four is equal to four one eight\par
these two sets are equal and that's\par
because they have exactly the same elements.\par
All elements are the same.\par
But, to have inequality, it is enough\par
that one element is different.\par
So, for example, the set one-two-four\par
is different from the set one-two-four-eight\par
just because there is one element, eight,\par
which is in one set, but not in the other.\par
So, after intersection, I'm sorry, after equality\par
we would like to talk about intersection.\par
So the two sets intersect if they share\par
at least one common element,\par
or in logic terms if there exists an X\par
such as, X is in A and X is in B.\par
And if we take, for example, the two sets\par
zero-one and one-two, they share the element one\par
and, therefore, they intersect.\par
Or if we take the two real intervals three up to four\par
and two up to five, they share, for example,\par
the real number three point five and many more numbers,\par
they're both in this interval and that interval\par
so, therefore, these two intervals intersect.\par
Now, for Venn diagrams, we can show the two sets\par
and we must indicate that there are elements\par
that they have in common, like here in this light green area\par
this element, this region is not empty.\par
And conversely, if the two sets do not intersect,\par
then they're called disjoint, in other words,\par
we say the two sets are disjoint if\par
they share no elements in common.\par
And logically speaking, it means that there's no X\par
such as X is in A and X is in B\par
or if you want for all X, X is not in A\par
or X is not in B.\par
Now, here are a couple of examples,\par
zero-one and two-three, share no elements in common\par
and therefore they intersect, they are disjoint, I'm sorry.\par
And three-four and four-five, they again,\par
do not share any elements, because four\par
is the only candidate, but four belongs to this set\par
but not this one, because this is an open parenthesis here\par
so they do not intersect, they are disjoint.\par
In terms of Venn diagrams,\par
what we can do is we can still show the two sets\par
and then indicate that this region, where they overlap\par
is empty, but if we don't want to write the empty set\par
then, what we can do is put the two regions separately\par
so it's clear there is no element in common.\par
And once we do that, it's also clear\par
that we don't even need to show the points\par
because we can just draw it like that\par
and that will tell us that these two sets are disjoint.\par
So, just a few comments about intersection.\par
So first,\par
the empty set is disjoint from any set\par
because it doesn't share any elements in common\par
with any other set.\par
You notice I'm using the reddish color because this\par
is kind of a result, if you wish,\par
and a non-empty universe intersects every set.\par
So if you take a universe, and it's not empty,\par
it's not feel like this, then it will intersect any set and\par
set A intersects itself, if and only if, it's non-empty.\par
So these are three things that are easy to see\par
and one more thing is, if you want to be wise\par
and get beyond two sets, you can generalize\par
and we can generalize to several sets.\par
We can say that several sets intersect\par
if all of them share a common element.\par
And we say that several sets are mutually disjoint\par
if every two are disjoint.\par
So now moving from intersection to subsets.\par
Subsets generalize less than or equal for numbers.\par
So if every element in A is also in B,\par
then we say that A is a subset of B,\par
and denoted using this symbol, A is a subset of B.\par
For example, zero is a subset of zero-one\par
because every element of zero,\par
belongs also to zero-one.\par
And notice that zero is also, a set containing zero\par
is also a subset of itself.\par
That's because every element here, of this set namely zero\par
belongs to the set on the right side.\par
So in this case, we see that set A\par
is also a subset of itself.\par
And using Venn diagrams we can show it\par
by this notation, so we have here all\par
the element of A also belong to B\par
there are no elements of A\par
that are not members of B.\par
So this must be empty and if\par
we don't want to write the empty set, we can\par
just put the set A inside the set B\par
and that will show us that every element\par
of A is also an element of B.\par
And once we write the sets like this, nested,\par
then we don't even need to show the elements.\par
It's clear that every point that will be in A will be in B.\par
So all these are valued ways of showing\par
subsets using Venn diagrams.\par
Now, equivalently,\par
if A is subset of B then equivalently,\par
we say that B is a superset of A\par
or contains A, and we denote it by B,\par
with this symbol, contains A.\par
And, for example, zero-one contains zero\par
because zero was a subset of zero-one,\par
so we can just reverse the order, and write it like that.\par
And conversely,\par
if A is not\par
a subset of B\par
that means that if A has an element that's not in B\par
then we say that A is not a subset of B and denote it\par
by A not a subset of B, or B does not contain A.\par
So, for example, zero-one is not a subset of one-two\par
because there's an element in this set on the left,\par
namely zero, which is not an element of the set on the right\par
so zero-one is not a subset of one-two.\par
And, equivalently, therefore we can say one-two\par
does not contain zero-one.\par
Alright, and using Venn diagrams, we can show it like this.\par
And there is the set A and B and we indicate\par
that there is an element in A that is not in B.\par
So this is not empty, this region.\par
Alright, so again, some comments about subsets.\par
So, if we look at the set P of positive numbers\par
that's very easy to see that it's a subset of N,\par
the set of natural numbers, which, in turn,\par
is a subset of Z, the integers, which, in turn,\par
is a subset of Q, the rational numbers,\par
which in turn, is a subset of the real numbers.\par
And we also see that the empty set\par
is a subset of any set A,\par
in turn, any set A is a subset of itself\par
and also, every set A is a subset of the universe.\par
And lastly, if A is a subset of B\par
and B is a subset of C, then A is a subset of C.\par
So, if every element in A is an element of B,\par
and every element of B is also an element of C,\par
then every element of A is an element of C.\par
And this is,\par
this says that\par
that subset is what's called transitive.\par
This property that if you have that A\par
is related to B and B is related to C\par
then A is related to C, in the same way,\par
it's called transitivity.\par
And very last one, if A is a subset of B,\par
and B is a subset of A, that implies,\par
that both of them are the same.\par
Because every element of A will be an element of B\par
and conversely an element of B\par
is going to be an element of A.\par
So they have exactly the same elements.\par
Alright,\par
using Venn diagrams, we can say it like this\par
because we have\par
A is a subset of B\par
namely this region is empty,\par
and B is a subset of A, so this region is empty.\par
And that means that everything is here\par
in the area where they overlap,\par
so they have exactly the same elements.\par
Alright, so.\par
Alright, now we can also talk about strict subsets.\par
They generalize strict inequality.\par
If A is a subset of B and A is not equal to B\par
then we say that A is a strict subset of B,\par
denoted by A, there we have a subset\par
without the equality sign\par
and B is a strict superset of A,\par
denoted by B superset of A, but without the equality.\par
So, for example, zero is a strict subset of zero-one\par
and therefore, zero-one is a strict superset of zero.\par
And, using Venn diagrams, you can see here that we have\par
A is a subset of B, so this part\par
is empty, so every element of A will also be in B\par
and also, we need to have that this region is not empty\par
so there will be some element in B,\par
which is not in A, so A is a subset of B\par
but it's not equal to B.\par
So there's some elements which\par
is strictly in B but not in A.\par
So, conversely, if A is not a strict subset of B\par
we write it that A is not strict, like this\par
or that B is not a strict superset of A\par
and when that happens, there are two possible reasons.\par
Either A is not a subset of B, so that\par
will imply that A is not a strict subset of B\par
or A is equal to B, it could be that A is a subset of B\par
but, it equals not a strict subset.\par
So, for example, for here, the set of zero\par
is not a strict subset of one\par
because zero is not a subset of one to begin with.\par
And here the set containing zero\par
is not a strict subset of the set containing zero\par
even though this set is a subset of this,\par
but it's not a strict subset because they're equal.\par
And, I want to also mention.\par
This, the difference between these two symbols.\par
And no I'm not talking about Pacman.\par
Even though I'm talking about something\par
that bothers fresh students, maybe just as much.\par
And that is the relationship between\par
belongs to, this symbol, and subset of, this symbol.\par
So, belongs to, this symbol,\par
is the relation between an element and a set.\par
So, when we write X belongs to A, with this symbol here,\par
that means that element A belongs to,\par
or is contained in, the set A.\par
For example, if we take the set zero-one,\par
has two elements, zero and one, so,\par
zero belongs to zero-one, and one belongs to zero-one.\par
But these are the only elements that can say\par
that they belong to it, with this symbol,\par
to the set zero-one.\par
If we take the set zero,\par
that set does not belong to zero-one\par
because it's not an element of zero-one.\par
zero-one is just two element,\par
which are these elements, not the set zero.\par
For this relationship we'll need to use\par
a subset, which we are going to see next.\par
So if we use the subset or equals,\par
subset like this, then that's a relation\par
between two sets.\par
And when we write A subset of B,\par
that means that the set A is a subset of the set B.\par
So, for example, if we take zero-one, again, the same set,\par
it has two elements, zero and one, so we have said.\par
So, if we take, on the other hand,\par
the set of zero, it contains just one element zero.\par
So, we see that this set is a subset of zero-one\par
because all it's elements, namely zero\par
are elements here.\par
So it follows that zero, the set containing zero,\par
is a subset of the set containing zero-one.\par
And, conversely, we see that zero is an element of zero-one\par
but zero is not a set, and therefore, we cannot write\par
that zero is a subset of zero-one.\par
Because to do that, we will need to have\par
two sets here and to have all elements\par
in the left side would belong to the right side as well.\par
And that we don't have it here.\par
So, I would like to end with a puzzle.\par
We defined what it means to be an element of,\par
and to be a subset of, and the puzzle is this.\par
Are there two sets A and B, such that A is both\par
an element and a subset of B?\par
In other words, A...\par
In other words, A belongs to B and A is a subset of B.\par
So, are there such two sets?\par
So, we'll talk about this in the next lecture.\par
And before we finish, I just want to\par
talk about set relations in Python.\par
So, equality, inequality, and disjointness.\par
So, let's define three sets, S1, S2, and S3\par
and actually one fourth, set T.\par
And you can see that, when you look at them,\par
you can see that S1 and S2 and S3\par
have something in common, in fact,\par
they're all the same.\par
So, all three of them are just the set zero-one\par
just defined slightly differently,\par
so this is the set zero-one,\par
this is again, set zero-one, just defined\par
using the set function.\par
And this is one zero-one, but as we know,\par
repetition doesn't matter, so this\par
is again the set zero-one.\par
Whereas T is different, it's the set zero-two.\par
So now, if you want to check equality,\par
we use the equal equal sign\par
and we can write S1 equal equal ST\par
and we'll get the answer is false\par
because we know the S's are different from the T\par
and if we write S1 equal equal S2.\par
We'll get it's true because all the S's are the same.\par
And S1 equal equal S3, again it's true.\par
If we want to check if two sets are different\par
then we write exclamation one equal\par
and then we can ask whether S1 is not equal to S2,\par
but as we know, the sets are the same, so we'll get false\par
and S1 not equal to T, these sets are different,\par
so this is true.\par
And if we want to check if sets are disjoint,\par
then we can use the isdisjoint function\par
and we can write S1 dot isdisjoint of T\par
and the answer is false because S1\par
intersects T because both of them contain\par
the element zero.\par
And we can ask whether S1 isdisjoint from the set two\par
and S1 is zero-one it is disjoint from two\par
and so this will be true.\par
If you want to look at subsets and supersets,\par
we can again, define a few sets,\par
like zero contains just the element zero,\par
Z plus contains zero-one\par
and Z minus contains zero and minus one.\par
Then to check subsets, we can just write less than equal,\par
because as we know this generalizes inequality\par
or write issubset, so we can write\par
Z minus is less than equal to Z plus,\par
and this is Z minus and this is Z plus.\par
We can see that it's not one of the middle of them\par
is a subset of the other.\par
So, we'll get false, but if we write Z minus issubset zero\par
that would mean that zero is a subset of Z minus\par
and the answer is true.\par
And strict inequality we can write using\par
just less than, strict less than,\par
so we can write, Z plus less than Z minus\par
the answer is going to be false again.\par
And if we write zero is a strict subset\par
of Z minus and we remind you Z is\par
zero is zero and Z minus is zero and minus one\par
it's a strict subset, the answer is true.\par
And similarly, issuperset, we can write\par
bigger than equal or issuperset\par
and we can write Z plus bigger than equal to Z minus\par
answer is false, but Z plus issuperset of zero,\par
that answer is true and strict subset use bigger than\par
Z minus bigger than Z minus.\par
The answer is no because they're the same,\par
so it's not a strict subset.\par
And Z plus is a strict superset of zero,\par
and that answer is true.\par
So, to summarize, we talked about set relations.\par
Specifically, we discussed equality and inequality,\par
which we denote by these symbols.\par
We talked about intersection and disjointness,\par
we talked about subsets and supersets,\par
which are denoted by these symbols.\par
And we talked about the negation\par
and when it's not subset, not superset.\par
And in Python we talked about equality,\par
indifference, isdisjoint, subset, strict subset,\par
superset, and strict superset.\par
And what we're going to be doing next time,\par
we'll talk about set operations.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
}
 