{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello and welcome back.\par
In the last lecture we talked about set relations\par
and today we would like to discuss set operations\par
but before that we have a puzzle to resolve\par
so if you remember,\par
we asked whether\par
there are two sets A and B such that\par
A is both an element and a subset of B\par
namely A is an element of B\par
and A is subset of B\par
and the answer is yes.\par
One thing that helps is to note that\par
the empty set is a subset of any set\par
So if we take A to be the empty set\par
then half of this question will be solved for us\par
and we'll just need to find\par
so we take A to be the empty set\par
and so we already have that A will be contained\par
in anything else that we're going to choose for B\par
and we'll just need to choose a B such that\par
the empty set will be a member\par
will be an element of B\par
so we just need the element\par
the empty set to be an element of B\par
and that's very easy\par
we take B to consist of\par
just the empty set as an element\par
so B is the set that consists of just a single element\par
and that element is the empty set\par
and once we do that\par
then we see that...\par
The empty set belongs to B\par
belongs to the set that contains the empty set\par
Okay, and as always we have that the empty set\par
is a subset of the empty set\par
that's because this is always true\par
and so we found two sets\par
namely the empty set\par
and the set containing the empty set\par
such that the empty set is an element of that set\par
and the empty set is a subset of that set\par
So the answer is yes\par
and these are the two simple sets\par
that satisfy these two relations.\par
Now, you can find more complex relations\par
that do not imply...\par
that do not use the empty set,\par
but this is the simplest you can find.\par
What are we going to do?\par
Remember that...\par
For set relations we generalize numbers\par
namely we looked at equality,\par
less than equal,\par
and strictly less than,\par
and we defined similar relations for sets\par
equality, subset, and strict subset\par
and we would like to do the same here for operations\par
and what we'd like to generalize are\par
addition, subtraction, and multiplication.\par
Addition we'll denote by union\par
subtraction we'll denote again by subtraction\par
multiplication again\par
we'll use the same symbol, multiplication\par
and in this lecture we'll talk about\par
addition and subtraction, or union and difference\par
they're called for sets\par
and we'll actually also talk about intersection\par
and multiplication we'll discuss in the next lecture.\par
First let's start with the complement\par
recall that the universal set omega\par
contains all elements\par
and so the complement of a set A is\par
which is denoted by this notation\par
A complement is the set of all elements in omega\par
that are not in A\par
in logic terms a complement is a set of all\par
elements X in omega that are not in A\par
so that's set notation\par
Using a venn diagram here is our set A\par
here is omega\par
and a complement is all the elements\par
that are not in omega clearly,\par
but not in this as the complement.\par
Let's look at a couple of examples\par
Let's, omega, our universe, be zero one\par
then what is the complement\par
of the set containing zero\par
is the set of all elements\par
that are not zero in our universe\par
which it will just be one\par
and what is the complement of zero one?\par
That's a set of all elements of omega\par
of zero one, that are not in zero, one\par
there are no such elements\par
so this is the empty set\par
And what is the complement of the empty set?\par
That's going to be zero one\par
Notice that A complement depends both on A\par
and on the universal set omega\par
so if our universe is now zero one two\par
and we take the complement of zero\par
that will consist of the elements one and two\par
Alright\par
Now if we take our universe to be\par
Z, the set of all integers\par
then the complement of the negative numbers\par
minus one minus two and so on\par
is the natural numbers\par
the set of no negative numbers\par
and if we let, still the same universe Z\par
and we let our set E be the set of even numbers\par
which is, remember, we define it to be\par
the set of all numbers divisible by two\par
and we minus two, zero two, and so on\par
and then if we take the complement of that\par
it's going to be the set of all numbers\par
that are not divisble two\par
like minus three, minus one, one, three, and so on\par
and we denote this set by 'O' and call it\par
the set of odd numbers\par
Now, we can get a couple of identities\par
and identities are just relations that\par
hold for all sets\par
so for example if we take the complement of the empty set\par
it's going to be the universe\par
the complement of the universe is the empty set\par
if A and A complement are disjoint\par
not if...\par
If A and A complement are always disjoint\par
because A complement consists of all the elements\par
that are not in A\par
and if you take the complement of A\par
and the complement of that again\par
you get back A\par
and this is called...\par
the complement is called an involution\par
if you take this operation\par
and apply twice to a set you get the set itself\par
and if a set A is a subset of a set B\par
then the complement of A\par
will be superset of the complement of B\par
Now we want...\par
to move from complement to intersection\par
and intersection of two sets A and B\par
denoted by this notation\par
is the set of all elements\par
that are both in A and B\par
and again using set notation\par
intersection B is the set of all elements x\par
that are both in A and B\par
Here's using venn diagrams,\par
here are A and B\par
and the intersection of all elements\par
that are in this region where they overlap\par
and for example,\par
if we take zero one and one three\par
the intersection is one,\par
because it's the one element that contains both\par
and if you take set zero and set one\par
the intersection is empty\par
and if we take the two intervals\par
zero four and three six\par
and then the intersection is all the real numbers\par
between three and four inclusive of three\par
but exclusive of four\par
so it's three up to four\par
and zero two intersection to five\par
because this interval does not include two\par
this intersection is going to be empty\par
Alright, and finally if we take an intersection\par
of the following two sets,\par
the set where it rains cats\par
and the set where it rains dogs\par
we get the intersection\par
is the set where it rains cats and dogs.\par
Moving from intersections to unions\par
the union of two sets A and B\par
denoted using this symbol here\par
is the collection of all elements in A, B, or both.\par
Using set notation, A union B\par
is the set of all x's\par
that are in A or in B or in both\par
and venn diagrams, this is A and this is B\par
and we're looking at the set of all elements\par
that are in one of them or both of them\par
that's going to be the whole shaded region here\par
that's A union B.\par
Okay some example,\par
if we take zero one union with one two\par
we get the set of all elements that are in\par
at least one of those two sets\par
that's zero, one and two\par
and notice that we can get zero, one, two\par
from a union of other sets\par
for example zero, one and just two\par
that'll give us the same union\par
zero, one, two\par
because the element two now is just here\par
where as beforehand it was...\par
I'm sorry, the element one...\par
is here just in this set\par
whereas here it was in both sets\par
and it's not really necessary to have it twice.\par
If we take...\par
the union of these two real intervals\par
zero, two union one, three,\par
what do we get?\par
We get the interval from zero to three\par
inclusive of both\par
and if we take the union of zero, one\par
with the single to one, what do we get?\par
We get the interval from zero to one\par
but now it includes the element one\par
and if we take the union of the evens and the odd\par
we get all the integers.\par
Alright.\par
So we can generalize of course to multiple sets\par
and A union B union C therefore\par
will be the collection of all elements x\par
such that x is in A or in B or in C\par
and using a venn diagram\par
here's A, B, and C\par
Um...\par
The union is just a collection\par
of all elements that are in any of those sets.\par
So it's the whole shaded area,\par
and if we take zero, one\par
union one, two\par
union two, three\par
we get zero, one, two, three\par
and generally if you have more than three sets\par
if three sets the union of A 'i'\par
'i' going from one up to 't'\par
is the set of all x such that\par
x belongs to A'i' for sum 'i' between 1 and t.\par
Alright.\par
And the union, for example, of all integers\par
the set of all integers, the set of containing 'i'\par
and we take the union of all these sets\par
from 'i' going from minus infinity to infinity\par
is just the set of all integers.\par
Similarly, we can define intersections,\par
so if this is A, B, and C,\par
the intersection is just this region here\par
which is the set of all elements\par
that are all in A, B, and C.\par
Okay. So...\par
Let's mention a few identities.\par
First for one set,\par
and identities are also called laws\par
they are relations that hold for all sets\par
so the first set identity is actually called identity\par
it says that if you take any set A\par
and intersect it with the universe\par
you get the set A itself\par
if you take any set A and take the union with the universe\par
you get the universe.\par
Second identity, called universal bond\par
it says that if you take any set A\par
and intersect it with the empty set\par
you'll get the empty set\par
and if you take any set A and take the union\par
with the empty set you get the set A himself.\par
Then, we have the idempotent identity\par
that says that if you take set A\par
to intersect with itself you get the set A\par
and if you take the set A and take union with itself\par
you get A\par
and complement,\par
that is if you take A intersect it with a complement\par
as we know there's the joint\par
so the intersection is going to be empty\par
and if you take the set A and take union\par
with its complement you get the whole space omega.\par
Again these are just very basic and I think,\par
kind of intuitive identities,\par
so we won't give proofs we'll just\par
mention them and you can verify them.\par
Alright.\par
And then if we move to laws with two or three sets,\par
we get the commutative law\par
that says that A intersection B is the\par
same as B intersection A\par
because these are just the set of elements both A and B.\par
And A union B is equal to B union A.\par
We've got the associative law\par
that says that A intersection B intersection C\par
if you first intersect A and B\par
and then intersect it with C\par
it's the same as taking A intersecting it\par
with the first intersecting B and C.\par
And similarly for the union\par
the order in which you perform the operations\par
does not matter.\par
And the distributive law that says if you take\par
A and intersect it with the union of B and C\par
it's the same as taking A intersection B\par
and taking the union of that with A intersection C.\par
And same for...\par
union and intersection.\par
And finally, one that we'll use a little more often\par
De Morgan's Law that says that\par
if you take any two sets and take the intersection\par
and take the complement that's the same\par
as taking the union of the two complements.\par
Basically, the complement of the intersection\par
is the union of the complements.\par
And you can have symmetric law\par
for if you take the union and take the complement\par
that's going to be\par
the complement of A intersection of the complement of B\par
or in other words, the complement of the union\par
is the intersection of the complement.\par
And this one maybe we're going to show why it's true,\par
and we're going to use venn diagrams for that.\par
So, De Morgan's Law, we'll prove,\par
or show that,\par
the complement of the intersection\par
is the union of the complement\par
so we're going to show, first,\par
draw this, a venn diagram for this region\par
and then for this one\par
and we'll show that they're the same.\par
So here's the set A\par
and here is a set B\par
they could be any sets\par
then A intersection B, we're doing this one first,\par
is this set here.\par
This is A intersection B.\par
And if we take the complement of that,\par
which we need to here\par
then that's going to be this whole shaded region here\par
that's A intersection B complement.\par
On the other hand,\par
if we do the right hand side,\par
then again this is A and this is B\par
this is A complement, and this is B complement,\par
and now if we take the union of these two sets\par
we get the whole shaded region here.\par
Okay, and we can see that these two areas\par
are exactly the same, and therefore,\par
the complement of A intersection B\par
is the same as the union of A complement and B complement.\par
Alright.\par
And then we also would like to discuss\par
set difference.\par
So the difference A minus B between two sets\par
is the set of elements that are in A but not in B\par
that generalizes minus four numbers\par
so A minus B is the set of x such that\par
x is in A but not in B.\par
And pictorially this is A, this is B\par
this is going to be the set A minus B\par
if all elements are in A but not in B\par
for example, zero, one minus one\par
is the set containing just zero.\par
And zero, one minus zero, one, two\par
looking at all the elements\par
that are in this set A but not here and are none,\par
this is going to be the empty set\par
and if we take the interval one to three\par
minus the interval two to four\par
is all the elements in the interval one to three\par
two to four it's going to be\par
the interval from one all the way up to two\par
but not including two because we're removing two.\par
And if we take one, three minus one, three\par
and then we'll just be left with\par
the numbers one and the number three.\par
Okay.\par
And one observation, again denoted here\par
in (mumbles) for a result, it's always true\par
A minus B, you can express it as\par
A intersection B complement.\par
And a note on notation, that...\par
Set difference which we denote by minus,\par
is also sometimes denoted by this slash,\par
backslash, sorry.\par
And once we have difference we can also define\par
symmetric difference.\par
The symmetric difference of two sets\par
is the set of all elements that are exactly in one set.\par
A delta B is the set of all elements\par
that are in A,\par
so the set of all elements x such that x is in A\par
and not in B,\par
or x is in B but not in A.\par
So they're in exactly one set.\par
Pictorally this is A and this is B\par
the symmetric difference\par
is just the elements that are in A not B\par
or B and not A,\par
in other words they're in just exactly one set.\par
If we take zero, one\par
symmetric difference with one, two\par
we're looking at all elements that are\par
in exactly one set,\par
and that is going to be zero and two.\par
If we look at the interval zero, two\par
symmetric difference with one, four\par
that's all the elements that are in exactly\par
one of those two intervals\par
and that's going to be zero up to one,\par
or two up to four,\par
and we're not including one because\par
one is here\par
so it cannot be included\par
we want it to be included in just one element\par
so here one is in both of them\par
so it's not in this set\par
and likewise two is in both of them,\par
so it's not included.\par
Alright.\par
And you can observe that\par
the symmetric difference of A and B\par
can be expressed as A minus B\par
union with B minus A.\par
Because this is A minus B here\par
and this is B minus A\par
you take the union you get\par
A symmetric difference with B.\par
And again from two set to three sets\par
if you have three sets\par
then you can define similar operations\par
just you can find recursively so this is going to be\par
these are A, B, C\par
this is A intersection B intersection C\par
this is all the intersection of all three of them\par
and this is A intersection B\par
that's what we have here minus C\par
so we're excluding this region here\par
we're just talking about\par
this region and this region here is\par
A minus the union of these two regions\par
so it's A minus B union C\par
and um...\par
If we take the union of these three region\par
this one and this one and this one\par
that's going to be B union C minus A and so on.\par
Okay.\par
So hopefully we've talked about\par
many different operations.\par
So to test I would like to do\par
the Venn Master Chart Quiz.\par
And this quiz actually comes with real rewards\par
that you can use.\par
So I'll give you two sets and I'll share\par
some regions and ask you what the regions are.\par
So first let's introduce the set,\par
this is our set A and this is our set B,\par
and if you ask what is this whole region\par
where we have points either in A or in B\par
what is this whole region?\par
That is A union B.\par
Very good.\par
And now let's say we eliminate this set\par
so we're left with just this region here.\par
What is this region?\par
It's A minus B.\par
And if we reverse things?\par
And we now look at just this region,\par
what is it?\par
It's B minus A.\par
And if we look at both this region\par
the red region here and the orange region here\par
what are they?\par
That's A symmetric difference with B.\par
Very good.\par
And then last one,\par
if we look at the intersection here,\par
what do we get?\par
Mastercard.\par
And if you got all of them correct,\par
then you can go and max the card.\par
So hopefully we all understand what\par
the different regions are\par
for intersection and union and difference,\par
and now we're just going to express them in Python.\par
So, set operations,\par
first union and intersection\par
again define two sets A and B,\par
like that.\par
and the union...\par
is expressed using either the bar,\par
again used,\par
or union.\par
So we can write A union B\par
we get 1, 2, 3\par
and we can write C equals A union dot union of B\par
we get this (mumbles) and then print C.\par
We get the same thing\par
and intersection you can write as 'and'\par
which kind of like borrows from the logical notation.\par
Or intersection\par
and you can write A intersection B you'll get two\par
or C equals A dot intersection B and print C\par
and you'll get two again which is the intersection.\par
And set difference and symmetric difference\par
so again A and B are the same\par
set difference we write as either minus\par
or difference\par
and can write A minus B and we'll get one\par
so this an element which is in A but not in B\par
it's just one\par
or we can write B dot difference with A\par
and we'll get three because this is B\par
and we subtract A\par
(mumbles) to make three.\par
And symmetric difference you can write using\par
this carrot notation or symmetric_difference.\par
So write A carrot B,\par
you get three, one\par
the elements that are in A or B,\par
but not both\par
or can B dot symmetric difference A\par
and again you get three, one.\par
So to summarize we talked about set operations,\par
we discussed complement,\par
which is denoted by A with superscript c\par
for complement of set A\par
intersection denoted like so\par
union\par
that\par
difference denoted by minus\par
and symmetric difference denoted by delta\par
and what are we going to do next time?\par
We're going to discuss Cartesian products.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Discussion\par
}
 