{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello and welcome back.\par
In the last lecture we discussed set operations\par
like unions and intersections and in this lecture\par
we want to talk about the final operation\par
which is Cartesian products.\par
Cartesian products are named after Descartes,\par
that's where the word Cartesian comes from.\par
And Rene Descartes was a French\par
and Dutch mathematician and philosopher\par
and scientist and is considered\par
by many to be the father of western philosophy.\par
And he gave us many gems including\par
Cogito ergo sum which means\par
I think therefore I am, or as our students here\par
in San Diego say, "I drink, therefore I am."\par
And divide each difficulty into as many parts\par
as necessary to solve it, a more mathematical one.\par
Or each problem I solved became a rule I later used\par
to solve other the problems.\par
Or a good mind is not enough, the main thing\par
is to use it well. And also, to improve the mind,\par
learn less and contemplate more.\par
So with this, let's learn a little bit more.\par
So, actually the story about Descartes\par
is that as a kid, he was quite sick\par
and he stayed at home for long periods of time,\par
got special permission to do that\par
and he continued this habit after he graduate\par
from school he would do shop to work\par
around noon and then work and then go home again\par
and many graduate students famously admire\par
Descartes so much that they adopt the same philosophy.\par
So the story goes that one day\par
he was in bed, it was almost noon-time\par
and he watched this...\par
He saw a fly.\par
And he said, "Oh, when I go to work,\par
"after lunch, I'm going to tell my colleagues\par
"where the fly was and how am I going\par
"to describe the location of the fly to them."\par
And he said, "Oh, let me describe the distance\par
"from the ceiling, the distance from this wall,\par
"the distance from that wall, and by giving\par
"those three real numbers, they'll be able\par
to tell where the fly was."\par
And that's how he came up with Cartesian Product.\par
There's maybe a small fly in this ointment\par
and that is the same system was used\par
by a Pierre de Fermat Nicole Oresme\par
before Descartes but maybe that's a small detail.\par
So before talking about Cartesian Products,\par
let's talk about tuples and ordered pairs.\par
So remember that a set is a collection of elements\par
where the order and repetition do not matter.\par
So a, b, c, is the same as b, c, a.\par
And if you want order to matter,\par
and also repetition, then we use tuples.\par
And tuple is both the order and repetitions matter.\par
So for example, a, b, c is not going to be equal\par
to b, c, a, it's not going to be equal\par
to a, b, b, c and so on.\par
And a, a, a is not going to be equal to a.\par
And an n-tuple is a tuple with n elements,\par
a1 up to a-and. We put tuples in parentheses\par
with commas in between the elements and\par
a special case of an n-tuple is a two tuple,\par
which this contains two elements and\par
it's also called an ordered pair.\par
For example, (3,7) is an ordered pair.\par
Just a small warning, when you see something like\par
(3,7), it could also mean a real interval,\par
the interval of all elements between three and seven,\par
but from context you'll typically know if we're talking\par
about an interval, which is the set of all elements\par
between three and seven, or a Cartesian product,\par
which just three and seven when the order matters.\par
So I can tell from context.\par
Now what are Cartesian products?\par
The Cartesian products of two sets, A and B,\par
is the set AxB of all ordered pairs (a,b),\par
where a is in A and be is in B.\par
In other words, Cartesian product is a\par
collection of ordered pairs, (a,b),\par
but not just any collection, but a collection\par
where the first coordinate could be anything\par
A set A, capital A and the second element could be\par
any element from A set B.\par
Using set notation, A Cartesian product B\par
is the set of all ordered pairs (a,b), such as\par
a belongs to this given set A and\par
b belongs to that set B.\par
And if we have a Cartesian product with itself,\par
it's denoted by A square.\par
And, of course, the best known Cartesian product is\par
the Cartesian product of the real numbers with themselves,\par
also called the real plane.\par
It's a set of all (x,y), such that x and y\par
are both real numbers.\par
Again, it's called Cartesian plane\par
and it's denoted like this.\par
We have here the set of all elements,\par
so here we have the real numbers x and real numbers y\par
in the set of all elements it can write\par
is the real plane, Cartesian plane, R2.\par
Now, if A and B are real sets, subsets of the real line,\par
then A Cartesian product B is a subset of\par
the whole Cartesian product and\par
will be shown as a rectangle.\par
For example, if A is the set zero to two,\par
and B is the set one to four, then\par
A Cartesian product B is the set of all elements (x,y)\par
such that x is between zero and two\par
and y is between one and four and it's denoted like so.\par
X is between zero and two. That's our set A here\par
and y is between two and four\par
and the set of all possible elements here\par
is the Carteisian product, which is a rectangle.\par
Now, we'll talk about discrete sets,\par
which are sets that are either finite or\par
accountably infinite, not continuous\par
and Cartesian product is the same for those sets\par
except it's simpler because\par
we just have fewer points to deal with.\par
For example, if we have the set (a,b)\par
Cartesian product with one, two, three,\par
it's a set of all elements x and y\par
such that x is an element in a and b\par
and y is any element in one, two, three.\par
And this is just a collection of all elements\par
a, one; a, two; a, three; b one; b two; b three;\par
all those elements.\par
And, luckily, we can organize them again on the plane.\par
So we can write a, b here and one, two, three here\par
and this'll be the set a, one; a, two; a, three;\par
b, one; b, two; b, three; as you can see here.\par
The only difference is that here we draw the first set.\par
For four discrete sets we typically draw\par
the first set vertically and the second set horizontally\par
just to mimic what we do for matrices.\par
The coordinates for matrices, the first one\par
corresponds to the vertical axis\par
and the second one corresponds to the horizontal axis.\par
All right.\par
Here the first coordinate is verticlly\par
and the second horizontally.\par
You don't have to do it that way.\par
I think typically people do that.\par
Some identities about Cartesian products.\par
If you take the Cartesian product of set A\par
with the empty set, it's the same as the Cartesian product\par
of the empty set with set a, which is the empty set.\par
If we take the Cartesian product of set A\par
with the union of two sets, it's the same as\par
taking the union of the corresponding Cartesian products\par
and here is why, just a simple visualization.\par
Let's say that A consists of two elements, a, b,\par
and B consists of one, two, three.\par
Then a Cartesian product b is the set of elements\par
and then if we have again the set A with same C,\par
which is now two, three, four\par
and A Cartesian product with C\par
is going to be the set of all those elements,\par
a, two; a, three; four and so on.\par
Then if we take A Cartesian product with B union C\par
it's going to be ...\par
B union C is the set one, two, three, four\par
so A Cartesian product of the union is\par
just going to be these eight elements\par
and it's easy to see that this set is the union of\par
this one and that one.\par
Likewise, if you take Cartesian product of set\par
with the intersection of two other sets,\par
it's going to be the intersection of the Cartesian product.\par
And the Cartesian product of the set with the difference\par
is the difference of the Cartesian product.\par
All these things carry over.\par
Now, examples of Cartesian products include tables\par
that we use with computers all the time.\par
Tables are Cartesian products.\par
Here is an example of a table.\par
These are called the rows of the tables\par
and in database language, they're called records.\par
For example, here each record corresponds to a student.\par
The columns are called attributes\par
and here we have three attributes:\par
the name, the gender, and the GPA.\par
And individual elements are called cells.\par
These, whenever you see a table,\par
we should think of Cartesian products,\par
of the rows with the columns\par
and we have all possible combinations here.\par
So cell is the entry.\par
Cartesian products can be generalized to three sets clearly.\par
If we have A times B, we get a two-dimensional rectangle.\par
And if we consider A Cartesian product with\par
B Cartesian product C, we get a three-dimensional cuboid,\par
so to speak.\par
Here is the Cartesian product of the set A\par
with the set B and the set C.\par
One reason why we care about Cartesian products\par
and about ordered pairs and tuples in general\par
is the tuples, that sequences, which we use all the time\par
are just tuples without the parentheses and the comma,\par
and sometimes without a comma.\par
For example, if we consider a, one; a, two; a, three;\par
b, one; b, two; b, three; we can just write it as\par
a, one; a, two; a, three; and b, one; b, two; b, three.\par
Or we could, if you want, keep the commas and so on.\par
So a sequence is just a tuple,\par
but we don't write the parentheses\par
and sometimes we don't even write the commas.\par
If you look at zero, one square,\par
so the Cartesian product zero, one times zero, one,\par
it's a set of all xy such that x and y belong to zero, one\par
so if we look at a sequences like that\par
so it's zero, zero; zero, one; one, zero; and one, one.\par
Whereas if we want to look at its Cartesian product\par
we'd have zero comma zero with parentheses,\par
parentheses zero comma one and the ordered pair\par
one comma zero and so on.\par
So sequences are the same as, in this case,\par
ordered pairs. We just don't write the parentheses\par
and we don't write the commas.\par
And zero, one cubed is just zero, zero, zero, one\par
up to one, one, one.\par
We can create Cartesian products in Python.\par
Again, we use the product function in the itertools library\par
and what we do is we import,\par
from itertools we can import product for Cartesian product.\par
We can say faces if we do, for example, cards\par
with a set consisting of jack, queen, and king\par
and we can have the suits.\par
For example, consisting of, let's say,\par
just diamonds and spades.\par
And then we can do for i in the product.\par
Product will take the Cartesian product of\par
face and suits and if you want to print them all,\par
we say for i in this product,\par
print i and we'll get all these ordered pairs.\par
To summarize, we talked about Cartesian products,\par
we discussed tuples like a one, a two, up to a and\par
and a special case of ordered pairs.\par
We just have two elements like a and b.\par
We mentioned that sequences, which we're going to use a lot\par
are the same as tuples except that we remove the parentheses\par
and sometimes we also remove the commas.\par
And for Python, we said that we can\par
implement Cartesian products using the product function\par
in the itertools library.\par
And next time we're going to talk about\par
a perplexing paradox.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
}
 