{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello, and welcome back.\par
So, so far we have talked about distributions in general\par
and today we want to start talking about more specific\par
distributions, specifically about random variables.\par
Okay so we'll motivate random variables\par
we'll give some examples, a few definitions\par
and then we'll show how to visualize them.\par
So first let's see what matters.\par
So, so far we talked about things like coins, rolling dice\par
playing cards, dominoes, marbles, all these things\par
that are lots of fun, but often we do things\par
that are not so fun but still necessary.\par
For example, if you're an internet company\par
you may wonder how many subscribers you have or\par
how many clicks you get or how many viewers\par
have seen your website.\par
Or if you are a manufacturing company, you may\par
wonder about the yield of your product, the weight\par
of individual items, how many sales you have and so on.\par
If you're a traveler, you may wonder about how long it will\par
take you to arrive at your destination or the congestion\par
along the way or the delay of your ride or of your flight.\par
And if you are a physician, then you may wonder about\par
your patient's age, their temperature\par
their heart rate and so on.\par
If you are a student, then you care probably about\par
your GPA, about your tuition, about the cost\par
of the online course you are taking or\par
the length of the assignments that you get.\par
And everyone cares about their income and\par
about cost of things.\par
So what do all these things have in common?\par
They all have to do with numbers.\par
And so numbers are very important, specifically\par
random variables whose values or numbers are\par
important to us, and a random variable is, in fact\par
a random outcome whose value is a number.\par
Okay, so what we're going to do now is going\par
to start studying random variables\par
those random outcomes whose values are numbers, right?\par
Okay so let's see how numbers are different to outcomes\par
like those we have studied so far\par
like coins and heads and tails and so on.\par
So first of all, the distribution P X\par
we have a few more features.\par
So because it's a number we can view it on a line\par
for example we can say that the probability of one is .2\par
the probability of three is .5, probability of seven is .3\par
and so we can view the values of X on the real line\par
because there are numbers.\par
We can also express them as a function\par
for example the probability of X is one over X squared.\par
It would have been more difficult if we'd looked\par
at the probability of heads and the probability of tails\par
or the probability of different kids of bread and so on.\par
Cannot write it as a function of what type of bread\par
or what type of vegetable we're looking at, right?\par
And we can also consider properties of distributions\par
for example we can consider decreasing\par
if the distribution looks like that\par
or concentrated if it's distributed\par
over a narrow interval and so on\par
Also for the random variable itself, X\par
there are some extra features that we can look at\par
for example we can perform operations.\par
We can say if we had X we can look at X plus one\par
or X squared, something we could not do with heads or tails\par
not the heads times tails and so on.\par
We can also combine variables, we can look at\par
we have random variable X and random variable Y\par
maybe that's your salary and your spouses salary\par
we can add them up, add those two random variables.\par
We can consider seven properties for example\par
we can look at what is the average value of X and so on.\par
Again, things that we can not do when the outcomes\par
were just some arbitrary values not numbers.\par
All right so we distinguish between\par
two types of random variables\par
and based on the size of the sample space omega\par
so one is when omega is finite for example one, two, three\par
e or pi, so here we have three values, two values\par
or countably infinite for example distribution within\par
actual numbers and distribution of the\par
integers of positive numbers.\par
All these random variables are called discrete.\par
Those that are either finite or countably infinite.\par
The other type of distributions that are\par
where the sample space is uncountably infinite\par
for example the intervals are from zero to two\par
or -1,3 union 4,5 the union of those intervals\par
or the real line and so on and those are called continuous\par
random variables, so we have these two types\par
of discrete and continuous random variables.\par
Of course there is also a mixture of the two.\par
So you can get something which is distributed\par
over the interval from 0,2 or e or pi.\par
Okay?\par
So these are called mixed random variables.\par
So we have these two types and then some combination.\par
Discrete random variables are a lot closer\par
to what we have done before so we're going to\par
start with them, okay?\par
So as I said we've seen things like that\par
for example we've seen several examples\par
that had number of outcomes for example we roll the die\par
and the number was one up to six so that was an integer\par
or we look at number of heads in three coin tosses\par
so the number of heads was a number between zero and three\par
an integer between zero and three.\par
Or we look at the values of a domino tile\par
was an integer between zero and six and so on.\par
But we did not use the fact that those outcomes\par
were numerical, we did not say okay let's look at domino's\par
and lets add things and multiply things.\par
We did them very rudimentary so we didn't use them very much\par
and what we're going to do now\par
is to start using the fact that those are numbers\par
quite extensively, okay?\par
And we will start with some familiar examples\par
then a couple new examples and then\par
get to the general formulation.\par
So first number of heads, as I said we have seen before.\par
So suppose you toss three fair coins\par
the sample space, the collection of possible outcomes\par
when you toss three coins are tails, tails, tails\par
tails, tails, heads and so on up to heads, heads heads.\par
And so the sample space omega has size eight\par
there are eight possible outcomes\par
and you notice that all of them are equiprobable\par
each one of those eight outcomes has the same probability\par
and so the probability of each one is 1/8.\par
So if we let X, our denote the number of heads\par
which if you note is a number\par
it's a random number, then we can write the possible\par
values of X here, it's going to be\par
the lowest X could be zero\par
could get zero heads and that happens\par
when you have tails, tails tails.\par
That has probability 1/8\par
or it could be one and that happens when you have\par
tails, tails, heads and tails heads tails and so on\par
and there are three possibilities here\par
each one is probability 1/8 so\par
the total probability of observing one head is just 3/8.\par
The probability of getting two heads is the probability\par
of getting either tails, heads, heads and so on\par
it's again 3/8 and the probability of getting three heads\par
that happens only if all coins are turned up heads\par
and that's just one possibility\par
and that has probability of 1/8.\par
And you observe that when you sum them up you will get one.\par
So if you want to draw them on a line\par
you can write here zero, one, two and three\par
and the probabilities are going to be 1/8, 3/8, 3/8 and 1/8\par
and we can see we can draw this probability like that\par
on the real line and our probabilities here.\par
Right, now if you want to specify the random verbal\par
we have a few ways to do it.\par
So we have the ways we have seen before\par
so for example we can do it explicitly\par
we can say, as we have done for the tetrahedral die\par
can say that the probability of one is .1\par
the probability of two is .2\par
.3 and .4\par
so we did it explicitly.\par
You can write it as a table\par
so we write here X and P X like that, okay?\par
But now because we're looking at probabilities of numbers\par
we have a couple of other ways of doing it.\par
We can write it as a function, for example\par
here the probability we can specify this\par
that the probability of X is X/10 so for example\par
the probability of two is 2/10 which is .2\par
the probability of four is 4/10 which is .4\par
so we can specify them as a function\par
and we say it's all four X between one and four\par
and we can also draw it as a graph.\par
Again, there are a couple of ways to do that\par
I will show three.\par
First you can show as a histogram.\par
So here there is X and P X and this says\par
the probability of one is at 0.1 which would meet right\par
probability of two is 0.2\par
probability of three we'd need to write 0.3\par
probability of four is 0.4.\par
So that's one way, or we can draw what's called a stem plot\par
it looks like this.\par
Probability of zero is .1, the probability of one is .2\par
the probability of three is .3\par
and the probability of four is .4\par
or we can draw what's called a plot\par
where we just connect these values, the probabilities.\par
So it will look like this.\par
So here we have zero connected to one\par
connected to two and to three, here it's a straight line.\par
So we can do all those and we can do them because\par
we could write the value of an outcome\par
which was a number on the real line like this.\par
So these are different ways of specifying\par
the distribution of a random variable.\par
Now, as before, we have a probability mass function\par
which is what we described until now.\par
So we call it PMF as we recall\par
and what it is, it's a mapping\par
P that maps the sample space to the real numbers\par
in such a way that each value is not negative\par
and they sum to one, okay?\par
So to specify the PMF we need to specify omega\par
the sample space and P.\par
Now omega for random variables is going to be\par
a subset of R because a random variable\par
gets a number value so it's a subset of the real numbers.\par
If the random variable is discrete as opposed to continuous\par
then this subset of the omega is going to be\par
a subset of the real number\par
and the subset is going to be finite or countably infinite.\par
And P as we said has to be not negative\par
P X is not negative, for X in omega\par
and if you sum omega and the probability\par
of all elements in the sample space\par
that should give you one, right?\par
So again, for a random variable\par
before we have the probability mass function\par
pmf for the distribution\par
except that now it's a subset of the real numbers\par
and then P X we have before.\par
So many people work in probability\par
different people use different notation\par
and just want to mention a few variations\par
so for discrete distributions\par
this omega is going to be a subset of R\par
and often for discrete distributions\par
it's going to be the set of integers\par
or the set of natural numbers\par
or the set of positive numbers\par
or a subset of these sets\par
for example one up to N.\par
P X the probability of X we sometime write as p sub x\par
just fewer parenthesis to write\par
maybe a slightly cleaner notation\par
and because X is often distributed over the integers\par
then sometimes instead of p of X we just write p of pi.\par
So then what we would have is the pi\par
is big and equal to zero and summation pi is one.\par
Now, even discrete distributions can be further classified\par
there are two types, a discrete distribution\par
could be as we said finite and that's when\par
the size of the sample space omega is number N in P.\par
Set of positive numbers, so it's not infinite\par
it's a finite number.\par
Or it could be infinite and that's when the size\par
of the sample space is infinite\par
and then necessarily it's what we call not\par
meaning its counter.\par
So let's look at finite distributions.\par
So here as we said, the size of the sample space is N\par
which is a finite number so in order\par
to specify distribution, we need to specify\par
just a probability mass function\par
the distribution itself\par
so we can just say it's p1, p2 to Pn\par
if for example it's distribution\par
it is distributed over one up to N.\par
Necessarily fall I between one to N\par
Pi each of those has to mean not negative\par
and summation Pi for N is equal to one.\par
We have a couple types of finite distributions\par
that could be for example uniform\par
that's when all the pi's are equal\par
then in that case it's going to be equal to one over N\par
and this can be shown like that\par
so we have all the values and each of them\par
have the same value so the same height.\par
So the same or it can be increasing\par
and that's when p1 is less equal to p2 and so on up to Pn\par
and then to look like that.\par
So the values are increasing\par
or it could be decreasing where p1 is bigger and equal to p2\par
and so on up to Pn and it's going to look like that.\par
Notice when we see the increasing or decreasing\par
we allow for things to be the same\par
so there could actually be a couple values\par
that are the same but in general\par
those are down or equal but will never go up\par
if distribution is decreasing.\par
All right.\par
Now for infinite distributions\par
the size of the sample space is infinity\par
and you can have one sided infinite distribution\par
and that's when you have p1, p2, p3 and so on\par
that goes to infinity and notice that\par
infinite distribution cannot be uniform.\par
That's because if p is equal to zero\par
if it's uniform then all of them are going to be equal\par
to some value p and if this value p is zero\par
then the sum is going to be zero\par
and the sum of the probability has to be one\par
so that's not going to work.\par
If p is bigger than zero, if you have a uniform distribution\par
of infinity in many elements\par
and if each of them, because it's uniform\par
all of them have the same value which we're calling p\par
if this p is now positive then the summation\par
is going to be infinite because you have\par
infinite times some positive number\par
in some ways it's not going to be infinite.\par
Again, it's not going to be equal to one.\par
So you cannot have a uniform distribution\par
over infinite amount of zeros.\par
Apologize, infinite many values.\par
You can have a uniform decision of a finite number of values\par
but not over an infinite number of values.\par
Also the distribution cannot be increasing\par
and that's because if for some Pis\par
going to be positive, lets say p5 is positive\par
then from that point on, pi plus one, pi plus two\par
are all going to be positive and in fact\par
are all going to be bigger than this pi.\par
And because they're all larger than this pi\par
then this sum is again going to be infinite.\par
So again, uniform distribution cannot\par
sorry infinite distribution cannot be uniform\par
and it cannot increase.\par
On the other hand, they can decrease.\par
For example you can have a distribution such\par
that p1 is one half, p2 is one quarter, p3 is one eighth\par
and so on and to see that, observe so\par
the distribution is shown like this, it's decrease\par
and starts at one, two, keeps going down\par
and to see that, notice that if you add those probabilities\par
for example if you just take one half\par
that's going to be one minus one half.\par
If you take the sum of the first two\par
one half and one quarter, that's three quarters\par
that's one minus a quarter.\par
If you take the sum of the first three\par
one half plus one quarter plus one eighth\par
that's going to give you half and then three quarters\par
and then seven eights so that's one minus one eight.\par
So if you take the sum one up to N, one over to the I\par
that's going to be equal to one minus one over two to the n\par
so like we said here, if we take one half\par
plus one quarter plus one eighth it's seven eight\par
which is one minus one eighth and that's two to n.\par
So if you take the sum of all the elements to infinity\par
that's going to be one and that's why\par
this probability is sum to one.\par
So you can have infinite distributions that are decreasing\par
like that one, okay?\par
You can also have double sided infinite distributions\par
and that's distribution where you have p1, p2 and so on\par
to infinity and p zero, p minus one, p minus two\par
and going to p minus infinity and that's one example\par
you can take this distribution, one half\par
one quarter, one eighth.\par
You can divide them into two so you get one quarter\par
one eighth and so on on the right side\par
and then you can have one quarter, one eighth and so on\par
on the left side, the right side will go to half\par
because it's distribution over two.\par
The left side will go to half, again because it's the same\par
half of this distribution and together they are sum to one.\par
If you do it like this, it will stop here\par
and then go to infinity on the other side, okay?\par
So just to summarize, you can have infinite distributions\par
but they cannot be uniform, cannot increase\par
but they can decrease and they can decrease on one side\par
or decrease on both sides, all right?\par
So now just a little formally\par
if one wanted to have a formal definition of random variable\par
then people would say that it's a function\par
it's a mapping from the sample space\par
to the real numbers, but in this course\par
we are trying to simplify the terminology\par
and just focus on the math or in tuition.\par
So we don't need to worry, we can just pretend\par
that the sample space is what you start with\par
which is maybe the real numbers.\par
So we can just say that for us, a random variable\par
is going to be a number-valued random experiment\par
and we don't need to worry about the form of the finish.\par
So to summarize, we talked about random variables.\par
We described the motivations which is that often\par
we are looking at random outcomes whose values are numbers\par
and they're useful first of all because\par
they arise in real life and also\par
we can operate on them which makes them even more useful\par
we can add random variables and so on.\par
We gave a couple of examples and then we defined\par
what the pmf, probability mass function\par
for random variable is, we saw how to visualize\par
using histogram, using plot and using stem plot\par
and next time we're going to talk about\par
cumulative distribution functions.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
A random variable does not have to be only integer values.\par
\par
\tab\par
True\par
\par
\tab\par
False\par
}
 