{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello, and welcome back.\par
So now that we have discussed randomness,\par
and distributions, let's talk about\par
distribution types.\par
We're going to discuss uniform sample spaces;\par
give some examples of coins, dice, and cards;\par
and then we'll talk about non-uniform spaces,\par
and give an example for tetrahedral die.\par
We'll start with uniform probability spaces.\par
Generally, outcomes may have different probabilities.\par
For example, rain may have 10% probability\par
of occurring on a given day,\par
and 90% probability that it doesn't happen.\par
But what we want to talk about now\par
are uniform, also called equiprobable, spaces\par
where the distribution is uniform.\par
Everything has the same probability.\par
All outcomes are equally likely.\par
For example, if you flip a coin,\par
then if the coin is far,\par
then the probability of heads\par
and the probability of tails are both one half.\par
When you have a uniform space,\par
then all probability specifications\par
and calculations become a lot simpler, as we'll see.\par
So as we said, in uniform probability spaces,\par
all outcomes are equally likely.\par
In other words, for all X in the sample space,\par
the probability of any X is the same P.\par
Now we know that one is going to be\par
the probability of the whole sample space,\par
and as we know, for probability distribution,\par
when you sum the probabilities, it has to be one.\par
Okay, and therefore we get the summation\par
of all X in the sample space of P is one.\par
This is just P times the size of the sample space,\par
and that tells us that P, the probability\par
of every element, is one over the size of the sample space,\par
or one of the sides of one coin.\par
For example, if we take a coin,\par
probability of heads and probability of tails.\par
If we assume it's P, then we have that\par
one is P of heads plus P of tails, or 2P,\par
and therefore P must be one half.\par
In uniform spaces in general,\par
we see that every outcome has probability\par
which is one over the size of the sample space,\par
like here one over two.\par
We call uniform spaces, we'll denote them\par
by this U for uniform.\par
All you need to know for uniform distribution\par
to know all the probabilities\par
is just to know the size of the sample space.\par
That makes them so simple for us.\par
And one notation is that when\par
we have uniform sample space,\par
we'll say that we draw uniformly from the space\par
or we just draw randomly.\par
So randomly, when we don't say anything else,\par
we'll signify that we're drawing uniformly.\par
So sometimes just say randomly, and mean uniformly.\par
Let's see a couple of examples.\par
For a coin, the sample space consists\par
of heads and tails, which we'll denote by H and T.\par
The size of the sample space is two.\par
We'll say that we'll flip a coin,\par
or toss a coin, and the results are equally likely.\par
In other words, the space is uniform.\par
That means the probability of heads\par
is equal to the probability of tails.\par
As we saw in the previous slide,\par
that means that each of them has a probability\par
which is one over the size of the sample space,\par
or one over two.\par
If we take a fair die,\par
the possible outcomes are one up to six.\par
The size of the sample space is six.\par
Therefore, if you roll the die,\par
if we assume the die's fair,\par
the faces are equally likely.\par
In other words, the space is uniform.\par
It's noted by U.\par
So the probability of one\par
is equal to the probability of two, and so on\par
up to the probability of six.\par
That means that the probability of each element\par
is one over the sample size, or one over six.\par
If we have a deck of cards,\par
then we let (mumbles) the set of four cards.\par
In this case, maybe 52 in the standard deck.\par
If we draw a card, everything is equally likely.\par
You know, a U.\par
The probability of getting maybe a three of clubs,\par
or a queen of hearts, all of them equally likely,\par
which is one over the size of the sample space,\par
which is one over 52.\par
Now, in many cases, the space is non-uniform.\par
Uniform spaces are coins and dies and so on,\par
but in those cases everything is pretty good.\par
But in nature, non-uniform spaces abound.\par
We give the example of rain,\par
also grades that we get\par
are not equally likely to be an A plus as other grades.\par
Our words.\par
Some words are more likely than others.\par
Some illnesses are more likely than others.\par
Some web pages are visited more often.\par
People that we see are not randomly distributed\par
among all seven billion people on the planet,\par
and so on.\par
So we need to look at them.\par
Now, the many examples of non-uniform spaces,\par
and one typical example is a pie chart\par
that we see here.\par
These reflect the different probabilities\par
of possible outcomes, as we see here.\par
When we see a pie chart,\par
what you see is, actually, could be uniform,\par
but typically a non-uniform space.\par
Typically the challenge with non-uniform spaces\par
is how can we remember it if we're going to give examples.\par
So we're going to try to give a simple example\par
of a tetrahedral die.\par
This is a four-sided, or pyramid die as it's also called.\par
It's used in different games, board games.\par
For example, Dungeons and Dragons.\par
Typically, in those cases, the die's equiprobable.\par
Each of the four faces has the same probability.\par
But we're just going to give it some different values.\par
We'll assume different probabilities.\par
We'll try to make it easy to remember.\par
The faces are one, two, three, four,\par
and we'll just give them probabilities\par
of .1, .2, .3, and .4.\par
Notice that, conveniently, they add to one,\par
and therefore this is a probability distribution.\par
Now that we have these examples in mind,\par
let's go over a few things about distributions\par
and see what we can say about them or can't.\par
Notice that random notation may be\par
a little confusing at first.\par
Which expressions are valid, and which are not?\par
For example, we can say the probability\par
that X is equal to three.\par
That's a valid expression.\par
That's the probability that the random outcome\par
is going to turn up three.\par
For example, if you have a fair die,\par
this probability is 1/6th.\par
So that's an okay expression.\par
Can also write P of three.\par
That's an abbreviation for the probability that X is three.\par
This is just the same as writing\par
the probability of X is three.\par
You can also write P of X,\par
but then we need to specify X.\par
For example, we can say that,\par
for X, P of X is a quarter.\par
If you have a fair tetrahedral die, for example.\par
Now things that are maybe not so clear\par
what they can do is if you write probability\par
of one equal to three, or probability\par
of the random variable X.\par
Those could happen, but not so likely.\par
For example, here what you might mean\par
is that you have a random variable,\par
which is always one, and another random variable,\par
and you ask what is the probability\par
that it's equal to three.\par
Then that probability is going to be zero.\par
Here, maybe you mean you have random variable X,\par
and you ask what is the probability\par
of the random outcome that you observe.\par
These are possible, but less common,\par
so make sure that this is what you mean.\par
This typically would mean zero,\par
and this is a random value, as we said.\par
Things that you should not do is,\par
for example, write the probability\par
that little X is equal to three,\par
because little X is a value.\par
Cannot write the probability it's equal to three.\par
This is even less likely, and probably it's wrong.\par
So, to summarize, we talked about\par
different distribution types.\par
We talked about uniform sample spaces;\par
coins, dies, and cards as examples.\par
We talked about non-uniform spaces.\par
We gave the example for tetrahedral die.\par
What are we going to do next time?\par
We'll discuss events.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Discussion\par
Topic: Week 4 / Distributions\par
Show Discussion\par
POLL\par
\par
An outcome in a uniform probability space has probability 1/10, what is the size of the sample space?\par
\par
\tab\par
5\par
\par
\tab\par
10\par
\par
\tab\par
20\par
}
 