{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello, and welcome back.\par
So in this lecture\par
we want to talk about sequential probability,\par
and we will start with the product rule.\par
So recall the results for conditional probability.\par
It says that the probability\par
of event F occurs given that event E has occurred\par
is the probability E intersection F\par
divide by the probability of E,\par
and pictorial we see it here.\par
We assume that event E here occurred\par
and you ask what is the probability of F.\par
F occurs, so if...\par
For F to occur\par
given that E we know has occurred.\par
So we must be in this intersection.\par
We are only interested in intersection F,\par
and we ask, what is the probability\par
that we are here given that\par
we know we are in this pinkish circle.\par
So that's going to be the probability\par
inside this area divided by total probability\par
which is probability of intersection F,\par
divided by the probability of E.\par
Okay, so we can just re-arrange things\par
and we write therefore\par
that the probability of E intersection F\par
is the probability of E,\par
times the probability of F given E,\par
and that simply is the product rule.\par
Says, if you have two events\par
what's the probability that both of them happen in F?\par
So first E has to happen\par
and then F has to happen given E.\par
So it's just the product E,\par
the probability that E happens\par
an then times the probability\par
that F happens given that E happened.\par
Okay, and so this simple rule actually helps us calculate,\par
use conditional probability to calculate\par
regular (non conditional) probabilities\par
as we are to see next.\par
Okay so,\par
let's look at this case of sequential selection.\par
So imagine that you have one blue ball,\par
and two red balls like that,\par
and we are going to draw two balls without replacement\par
and we ask, what is the probability\par
that both of those two ball are going to be red, okay.\par
So let Ri be the probability\par
that ith ball to withdraw is red.\par
So Ri is the probability that the first ball\par
to withdraw is red\par
and R2 is the probability\par
that the second ball withdrawn is red.\par
So the probability that both are red\par
which is what we are interested in\par
is the probability that R1 and R2 are both red.\par
So that the probability that R1,\par
probability of R1 and R2, both of them, alright,\par
and that we apply the product rule.\par
We can write it as the probability that R1,\par
probability first is red.\par
Times probability the second red\par
given that the first is red.\par
Okay, so we just need to calculate\par
these two probabilities.\par
So what is the probability the first one is red?\par
So we have one blue and two red balls.\par
So the probability that the first one is red\par
is obviously just 2/3.\par
Okay, we have two more,\par
two... twice as many options to pick red than blue.\par
Okay, and once we pick the red\par
we are going to see the probability off all,\par
that the second one is red given\par
that the first one is red,\par
but if the first one is red,\par
then that means that we are left with one blue and one red.\par
Okay, in that case given the first one\par
is red we are left with these,\par
and then the probability the next one is red\par
is just going to be what?\par
1/2, okay.\par
So coming back here,\par
so the probability that both are red\par
is the probability the first is red\par
which we calculated here to be 2/3.\par
So and after this we will be left with what?\par
So it's the probability the first\par
is red is 2/3 times probability the second is red\par
given the first one is red, which is 1/2.\par
So it's 2/3 times 1/2 or 1/3.\par
Okay, so we calculate probability easily using\par
the sequential equation or product rule, right.\par
Now this product rule can be generalized.\par
So let's see what happens for more than just two events.\par
So if you have three events\par
you can write that the probability\par
of E intersection F intersection G,\par
is the probability of intersection F, intersection G.\par
Where the probability of intersection F\par
you can write as,\par
so you can write as probability of intersection F\par
times the probability of G given intersection.\par
Okay, where the probability of E intersection F,\par
you can write as P of E,\par
times P of F given E,\par
and then times the probability of G given intersection.\par
So it's this product.\par
So it's, first E has to be happen\par
and then F has to be happen given E happened\par
and the G has to happen given that both have happened.\par
Okay, so this is the product rule for three events\par
and you can also generalize it to two more events.\par
Okay, so let's see an example\par
that will make calculation easy.\par
So let's consider the case\par
of a whole bunch of red balls and one odd blue ball.\par
So specifically we have n-1 red balls and one blue ball,\par
and we are going to pick n,\par
we are going to pick all the balls.\par
So n balls is all together.\par
Pick all of them without replacement,\par
and only one after the other without putting back,\par
and we ask what is the probability\par
that the last ball we pick is blue?\par
Okay, so let R subscript i\par
be the event that ith ball is red.\par
Okay, so Ri is the event that the first ball is red\par
and so on,\par
and let R superscript i\par
be the event that R1 happened and R2 up to i,\par
and in there, first i balls are all red.\par
So that's our superscript i.\par
Okay, so the probability that the last ball is blue,\par
which is what we are asking about,\par
is the probability that all the first n-1 balls are red,\par
because we have n-1 balls, red balls,\par
and one blue ball.\par
So the probability the last one is blue\par
is probability that R1 is red and R2 is the...\par
I'm sorry, the first ball is red\par
and the second ball is red.\par
All the way up to the n minus first ball is red,\par
and that by the product rule you can write\par
as the probability of R1,\par
that the first one is red,\par
times the probability that the second one is red,\par
given that the first one is red.\par
Times the probability that the third one is red,\par
given that the first two are red\par
and so on up to the probability that\par
the n minus first ball is red,\par
given that the previous n minus two balls\par
were all red.\par
Okay, so this we can calculate,\par
coz the probability, what is the probability\par
of R1, the first one is red while we have n balls\par
and out of them n minus one are red.\par
So that probability is going to be n minus one over n.\par
Okay, and then once we,\par
if the first one is red we take it out.\par
Then we will be left with n minus two red balls\par
and one blue ball.\par
So the probability that the next one is going\par
to be red is going to be n minus two divide by n minus one,\par
and then after we take out another red ball,\par
we will have n minus three red balls\par
cuz we had n minus one to begin with, we subtracted two,\par
and the total number of balls is n minus two,\par
coz we started with n subtracted two.\par
So the probability the next one is red\par
is n minus three over n minus two\par
and so on up to two times three,\par
and then in the end\par
for the n minus first ball,\par
we are left with two balls of which one of them is red,\par
and that is times 1/2.\par
Okay, and you can see that you got\par
some very nice cancellations here,\par
n minus one cancels here,\par
n minus two cancels here, n minus three would cancel.\par
The three would cancel, the two would cancel,\par
and will be left with is just 1/n.\par
So we see that the product rule,\par
allowed us to calculate\par
the probability that the last ball\par
is blue, very easily,\par
but is it really very easily?\par
Well you could have done it also in a different way.\par
You can just say, okay I have the balls.\par
Like imagine are arranged in a row.\par
Okay, and so what is the probability that\par
the last one will be blue,\par
is the probability that the last one to pick is blue\par
is just a probability that the blue ball ends up\par
at the very end of the row,\par
and since it has n different locations to be\par
and the probability that it's the last one\par
is this 1/n, which is what we got.\par
So the product rule was nice\par
but maybe not as easy as we could have done.\par
Not the easiest we could have done.\par
Alright, okay, so I want to look\par
at another application of the product rule.\par
Maybe a little more interesting.\par
Maybe you should say, even more interesting,\par
and imagine that you have\par
people at a party,\par
and you ask, how many people would it take\par
so that two would likely share a birthday?\par
So how large should this party be\par
so that it's likely, maybe more than half probability\par
that two people in the party have the same birthday?\par
Okay, so we are going to assume\par
that every year has 365 days,\par
no leap years and so on,\par
and that every one is equally likely\par
to be born on any given day.\par
So everyone is equally likely to be born\par
on the first day of the year, second day and so on,\par
Alright, so\par
probabilistically what we are asking about,\par
we say we choose n random integers.\par
Each from one to 1/3 (mumbles),\par
one to 365.\par
We choose them with replacement\par
because people could potentially have the same birthday.\par
We choose n of them,\par
and we ask, we let B(n) be the probability\par
that two or more people have...\par
I'm sorry, two or more of these integers\par
that we chose are the same.\par
Okay, and we ask for which n, how many people,\par
will B(n) be the probability that\par
we have two that are the same exceeds half.\par
That would mean for us likely, to be likely.\par
So it's the probability that two shares\par
a birthday is at least half.\par
Okay, so when people are told apparently some\par
of them think that this number should be roughly 365.\par
Maybe because they think that there are 365 days,\par
but you need to have as many to get some coincidence,\par
but in fact the answer is much smaller.\par
Okay, so first attempt.\par
We could consider n people in order,\par
say alphabetically just taking people in some order,\par
and then list of birthdays.\par
So maybe the first one was born\par
on the second day of the year, or tenth day of the year,\par
the last day of the year and so on.\par
Okay, and so this is selection with replacement.\par
Like you see here 10 we selected twice.\par
So we can consider the set\par
of all possible birthday sequences.\par
Okay, and so we call it,\par
this is our sample space omega.\par
So these are the set of all possible birthday sequences.\par
There are numbers from one up to 365, raised to the n.\par
The nth (mumbles) power of this.\par
So this are all possible sequences\par
and the size of the sample space is, as we know,\par
is 365 raised to the n.\par
Okay, now we can assume,\par
because we assumed that\par
the individual birthdays are uniform,\par
then also this implies that the space is uniform.\par
Every sequence that we get of n values,\par
for example this sequence,\par
is equally likely to any other sequence,\par
because all birthdays are uniform.\par
A uniform is selected, okay.\par
So for like Bn, be the set of sequences\par
that have some repetition in them.\par
For example this, the 10 happened twice.\par
Then what we need,\par
the probability that we get\par
as an element in Bn.\par
The probability that we get a repetition\par
is just this size of Bn.\par
We need to see how many sequences\par
of length n over 365 have repetition,\par
and we need to divide it by omega.\par
Okay, but calculating this\par
is not super easy.\par
So is a little involved.\par
So what we do is instead of calculating,\par
I should say calculating directly,\par
then is a little involved.\par
So what we do is what we have done many times\par
and we are going to look, instead of Bn,\par
we are going to look at the complement of Bn.\par
That will turn out to be easier.\par
So again using, we are thinking outside the circle,\par
and we are looking the complement of Bn.\par
So Bn is the set of,\par
where you have n people share a birthday\par
or have a birthday repetition,\par
and will be, the compliment of Bn be the set,\par
the event that we have n people\par
and no two share a birthday, okay.\par
So we evaluate the probability.\par
We use the product rule to evaluate\par
this probability sequential over the first person,\par
second person and so on,\par
and so what we want to see is what is the probability\par
that second person is, birthday is different\par
from the first one,\par
coz we are looking no birthday repetition,\par
and then the third birthday person has\par
a different birthday from the previous two and so on.\par
So that's what we are going to look at,\par
the probability that each person has\par
a birthday which is different from all the previous,\par
all the previous ones.\par
Okay, so the calculation is as follows.\par
So we have n people and the probability\par
that no two share a birthday,\par
is going to be probability\par
that the second is different from the first.\par
That's going to be, the second one\par
is 364 birthday to be born in,\par
divide by 365,\par
and times the probability the third one\par
will defer from the previous two,\par
given that previous two have different birthdays.\par
So if the previous two have different birthdays,\par
they already take two birthdays\par
and he needs to be, or she needs to be born\par
in one of the 365 minus two,\par
on one of the 363 out of 365 possible birthdays.\par
So what we do is we will get,\par
each one will get 364 times 363,\par
times 362 and so on.\par
Each one of them is divided by 365,\par
and the last one that we will have is 365 minus n minus one,\par
or 365 minus n plus one\par
when we take parenthesis out,\par
bacause you have n minus one people before hand,\par
and the birthday (mumbles)\par
one which is different from what we had before.\par
Okay, so we want to calculate this probability\par
and we can use this small approximation.\par
So first of all we can write it as the product\par
of one minus i over 365,\par
i going from one up to n minus one, okay,\par
and then we can use an approximation\par
that one minus x is less than or equal to e to the minus x.\par
You can kind of visualize it,\par
one minus x falls and e to the minus x stays above it.\par
Okay, and so this is less than or equal\par
to the product of e to the minus i to the 365.\par
This is one minus x, this is e to the minus x,\par
and this product is going to give us\par
the exponent or e to the minus this summation\par
of 1/365 summation i going\par
from one up to n minus one,\par
summation of i, okay,\par
and as we know this summation\par
is n times n minus one over two.\par
So we are summing one plus two up to n minus one.\par
So we have n minus one times\par
the average is n over two.\par
So this gives us e to the minus n,\par
times n minus one over two,\par
and again divide by 365.\par
Okay, which is almost the same as e to the minus n square\par
over two times 365.\par
So if you want this probability to be half,\par
so this is what we are asking\par
when is this probability going to be...\par
This is the probability of the compliment.\par
So we want this probability to be less than half.\par
So we extend the right direction.\par
So, here.\par
So if we want this probability to be less than\par
or equal to half then,\par
or in this case we work equal to half.\par
Then what we must have,\par
so we must have that minus n square\par
over two 365\par
is equal to Ln of 0.5,\par
and so taking log on natural log on both sides.\par
So Ln of, then left side here,\par
is Ln of 0.5.\par
Which is minus Ln two.\par
Okay, so we can cancel the minuses,\par
and we get therefore that n is going to be,\par
well you can,\par
it's going to be this value\par
which you can also write as two times 365\par
times Ln two, it's the same.\par
Okay, and when you calculate it is 22.494\par
and in fact\par
if you calculate the exact value,\par
it's going to be the value for which this quantity\par
is going to cross the half.\par
It's almost exactly the same\par
and which means that we are gonna get 23 people.\par
Then the probability that,\par
the probability that they will not share a birthday\par
which is what we calculated here,\par
will be less than half\par
and the probability that they will share a birthday,\par
will therefore be bigger and equal to half,\par
and you can see it in this graph here.\par
This is the probability\par
that you get to birth then you get to 23\par
this probability crosses the half,\par
and if you look at the notebooks\par
that we have for you,\par
the Jupiter notebooks,\par
you can see how to calculate these probabilities\par
for any given number of n.\par
Alright, so in this (mumbles) lecture\par
we talked about Sequential Probability\par
and next we will talk about Total Probability.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Discussion\par
Topic: Week 4 / Sequences\par
Show Discussion\par
POLL\par
\par
The equality P(A\f1\u8745?\f0 B)=P(A)P(B) holds whenever A and B are\par
\par
\tab\par
independent\par
\par
\tab\par
disjoint\par
\par
\tab\par
intersect\lang9\par
}
 