{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello, and welcome back.\par
In the last lecture, we talked about sequential probability,\par
and we would like to talk about total probability.\par
So sometimes it's easier to split an event\par
into different parts\par
and calculate the probability of each part of the event\par
and then add them up.\par
So in some sense to perform divide and conquer.\par
I'm missing an e; I apologize for that.\par
So this is called the law of total probability\par
because we're looking at the total probability\par
of several sub-events,\par
and to see that, let's start with two events.\par
So imagine that you have two events, E and F,\par
and we want to find the probability of one of them,\par
say probability of F, okay?\par
We can write it, we can show it like this,\par
so here is the event E and the event F,\par
and we can, notice that we write F\par
as E intersection F\par
union with E complement intersection F,\par
and assuming this is a joint union,\par
you can see it here.\par
We're interested in the event F.\par
We can write it as\par
E intersection F is the region here,\par
the dark green,\par
and E complement intersection F,\par
which is the light green area here.\par
These two regions together gives you F,\par
and they're disjoint.\par
So F we can write as E intersection F\par
disjoint union with E complement intersection F, right?\par
Now, therefore by the addition rule,\par
we get that the probability of F\par
is the probability of E intersection F plus,\par
because this union is disjoint,\par
the probability of E complement intersection F, okay?\par
And then what we could do is we could use the product rule\par
and write the probability of E intersection F\par
is the probability of E times the probability of F given E.\par
And again by the product rule,\par
we can write the probability of E complement intersection F\par
is the probability of E complement\par
times the probability of F given E complement.\par
Again, use the product rule twice, both cases, okay?\par
So what this tells us that we are interested\par
in the probability of an event F,\par
but there's some other event E out there,\par
and we can calculate the probability of F\par
by writing the probability that E happens\par
and then F happens given that E happened,\par
or that E did not happen and F happened, okay?\par
So we can write like that.\par
And sometimes it's easy to calculate\par
these conditional probabilities\par
so it's easier to get the total sum, okay?\par
And we're going to see an example of that right now.\par
So suppose you have two fair coins,\par
and you let Hi be the event that coin i is heads.\par
So H1 is the event that the first coin is heads,\par
H2 is the event that the second coin is heads, okay?\par
And we let exists H be the event\par
that at least one coin is heads, okay?\par
So we ask what is the probability that exists heads?\par
Now, of course we have done this so many times\par
we can do it on our sleep.\par
We can see that the probability that exists head is really,\par
this is because we have two fair coins,\par
this is a uniform sample space,\par
so we just need to look at how many events,\par
how many outcomes have heads in them\par
and how many outcomes are altogether.\par
The total number of outcomes, because we have two coins,\par
is four, heads-heads, heads-tails, and so on,\par
and how many of them are heads is three,\par
okay, so it's three over four.\par
And we can see it here.\par
So, and these are the four outcomes,\par
heads-heads up to tails-tails,\par
there's four outcomes,\par
and we're interested in events that have heads.\par
Those are three.\par
So the probability is three over four.\par
Okay, but suppose we didn't know that.\par
So we would like to calculate the probability.\par
What we could do is write this,\par
the probability of exists heads.\par
This is the only thing we're interested in\par
that we're going to use the events H1 and H2.\par
So it's going to be the probability of H1\par
that is the probability that H1 happens,\par
namely, the first one is heads,\par
and there exists a heads,\par
plus the probability that H1 did not happen,\par
the first one is not heads,\par
and exists heads, okay?\par
Now, each of those we can write as the probability of H1\par
times the probability of exists heads given H1\par
plus the probability that H1 did not happen,\par
the first one is not heads,\par
times the probability exists heads\par
given that H1 did not happen,\par
given the first one is not heads.\par
Okay, now, this is easy to see the probability of H1,\par
the first one is heads, is one half, okay?\par
And the probability that exists heads\par
given that the first one is heads is one,\par
because if the first one is heads,\par
then we already know that exists heads.\par
Plus the probability that the first one is not heads.\par
That is probability one half, the first coin is not heads.\par
And then given that the first coin is not heads,\par
the probability that exists heads,\par
that means that the second coin must be heads,\par
and that happens roughly one half.\par
So when we sum them,\par
we get one half times one plus one half times one half,\par
which is three quarters,\par
which agrees with the calculation we had before, okay?\par
Except now we did it using the total probability law.\par
We partitioned this event for exists heads into two parts.\par
One is when the first coin was heads\par
and then the second one was when\par
the first coin was not heads,\par
calculate both, all right?\par
Now, this could be generalized from, to more conditions.\par
So if you imagine if you have events E1, E2, up to En,\par
that partition your sample space,\par
and now you can write F as the union from i going from,\par
this should be i going from one up to n.\par
I apologize.\par
Not i going from n up to k.\par
Of Ei intersection F.\par
And this plus indicates that this union is disjoint.\par
So let me just say,\par
so you can write F as the union of E1 intersection F\par
and E2 intersection F and E3 intersection F,\par
and because the Eis are partition omega,\par
that means that they are disjoint,\par
and these,\par
this union is going to be a union of disjoint events, okay?\par
So it's written here as F,\par
and here is E1, E2, E3 that partition this space,\par
so we can write F as the union of F intersection E1,\par
union of F intersection E2 and F intersection E3,\par
and each of those three regions\par
are mutually disjoint, okay?\par
So therefore by the addition rule,\par
we get that the probability of F is going to be\par
the summation i going from one up to n.\par
So here i, the limits are written correctly,\par
i going from one up to n\par
of the probability of Ei intersection F.\par
And by the product rule,\par
we can write these s the probability of Ei\par
times the probability of F given Ei, okay?\par
So let's see an example.\par
Two dice such that Di would be the outcome of die i.\par
So D1 is the outcome of the first die.\par
And let S be D1 plus D2,\par
be the sum of the outcomes of the two dice, okay?\par
So let's say we're interested in the probability\par
that the sum is five, okay?\par
So we can write that the probability that the sum is five\par
is the summation of the probability\par
that the first die is i,\par
is one, two, all the way up to four,\par
can't get most four,\par
times the probability that the sum is five\par
given the first die is i,\par
namely, the second die is five minus i, right?\par
And this is the probability that this,\par
that the second die is five minus i\par
given the first one is i,\par
which is the same as the probability that the sum is five\par
given that the first one is i, okay?\par
So this we can calculate easily.\par
The probability that the first...\par
So this is the probability the first die is i\par
and the probability the second die is five minus i\par
given the first die is i\par
and the dice are independent of each other,\par
so this is just the probability\par
that the second die is five minus i.\par
And so what is the sum is,\par
it's going to be four,\par
and for each one we have the probability\par
that the first die is i\par
and the second die is five minus i,\par
each one is probability one over six,\par
so it's four over 36,\par
which is one over nine, okay?\par
All right, and we'll do a last example.\par
The iPhone X is just out,\par
and they checked,\par
and, you know, some of the iPhones come with a green bar\par
which I didn't try to, I should've shown,\par
I didn't show here.\par
And so they checked and they realized that, well,\par
they make the iPhone X in three factories,\par
and they produce 50%, 30%, and 20% of the phones, okay?\par
And they have defective, some of their phones are defective,\par
and their defective rates are 4% for the first factory\par
and 10% for the second factory\par
and 5% for the third factory, okay?\par
So all this is shown here.\par
We have one factory making 50%\par
and 30%, 20%,\par
this factory has 4% defective rate,\par
and this one has 10% and this one has 5%.\par
And the question is what is the overall fraction\par
of defective iPhones, okay?\par
So we can write the probability of defective\par
as the probability of F1 intersection D\par
plus the probability of F2 intersection D\par
plus the probability of F3 intersection D.\par
All we're using here is the fact that F1, F2, F3,\par
the union is the whole set of iPhones,\par
and they are disjoint, okay?\par
And then we can write each of those,\par
so probability of F1 intersection D\par
is the probability of F1\par
times the probability of D given F1,\par
and so on.\par
The probability of F2\par
times the probability of D given F2,\par
and likewise here.\par
And then we can just plug in the numbers.\par
The probability of F1 is 50%,\par
and times the probability of defective given F1 is 4%.\par
And then plus 30% times 10%,\par
plus 20% times 5%.\par
And when you add them up,\par
you get 0.02 plus 0.03 plus 0.01.\par
That gives you 6%, okay?\par
And what you can do is if you look here at the right\par
underneath my picture,\par
then you can see that what happens is\par
that the first factory makes 50% of the phones\par
and 4% of them are defective,\par
so a total of 2% of the phones are made by this factory\par
and are defective,\par
and a total of 3%,\par
30% times 10% of the phones are made by the second factory\par
and are defective,\par
that's 3%,\par
and a total of 20% are made by this factory,\par
and one of 20th of them are defective,\par
so 1% are made by this factory and are defective.\par
So the total number of defective phones\par
is two plus three plus one,\par
which is 6%,\par
which is what we got here, okay?\par
So, good?\par
So now that we have seen how to calculate the probability\par
that the phone is defective,\par
I think we have discussed total probability,\par
and next time we'll be ready to discuss base rule.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
There are 3 bags that each contain 100 marbles. Bag 1 has 60 red and 40 blue. Bag 2 has 75 red and 25 blue. Bag 3 has 45 red and 55 blue. If you choose one of the bags at random and then choose a marble at random, what is the probability that the chosen marble is red?\par
\par
\tab\par
0.60\par
\par
\tab\par
0.2025\par
\par
\tab\par
0.33\par
\par
\tab\par
0.50\par
}
 