{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello and welcome back.\par
We've talked about total probability in the last lecture,\par
and now we're going to talk about Bayes' rule,\par
also know as backwards running, so let's start.\par
Often, there's asymmetry between events.\par
For example,\par
in the event that you bought Google when it went public,\par
that was a very happy event.\par
You probably are quite wealthy now.\par
If you bought Google when it went public,\par
then it's very likely that you're wealthy.\par
Probability is close to one.\par
But what about the opposite?\par
Suppose you are very wealthy.\par
What is the probability that you bought Google at the IPO?\par
It's not clear,\par
because maybe you are wealthy from another reason.\par
Or if you are alive today,\par
then most likely you were born after 1800.\par
But how about the reverse?\par
How about you were born after 1800?\par
What's the probability that\par
well, you are alive today,\par
but someone who is born after 1800 is alive today?\par
We don't know,\par
because that someone could have been born in 1800 or 1801,\par
or they could have been born last year,\par
so again, it's not easy to know.\par
This asymmetry is quite frequent,\par
and so that's what we want to address now.\par
We want to be able to move\par
from forward to backward calculation.\par
Sometimes, calculating the probability of F given E is easy,\par
but calculating the probability of E given F is hard,\par
and we'll give a couple of examples.\par
Perhaps not surprisingly,\par
they'll be the same examples\par
that we gave in the last lecture.\par
We did that so we can use the results that we got.\par
Imagine that you have two coins,\par
and we let Hi be the event that coin i is heads,\par
so H1 is the event that the first coin turns up heads,\par
for example,\par
and we let exists H be the event\par
that you have at least one heads.\par
Then, calculating the probability\par
of exists heads given H1 is easy,\par
because if the first coin is heads,\par
then we know that exists heads, so this is easy.\par
But how about the reverse?\par
Calculating the probability that the first coin is one,\par
given that exists heads.\par
Maybe that's not so easy.\par
Or let's look at the two dice example\par
that we considered last time.\par
Let Di, if you remember,\par
be the outcome of the roll of die i,\par
so it's the face for die i.\par
For example,\par
D1 is the outcome for the first die,\par
and we let S be the sum of D1 and D2,\par
of the two faces that we observe,\par
so we can see that the probability, for example,\par
that the sum is five, given that the first die is two,\par
that's the same as the probability\par
that the second die was three,\par
'cause then the sum will be five.\par
Probability of the second die is three is 1/6.\par
This one is easy.\par
But conversely, calculating the probability\par
that the first die turned up two, given the sum is five,\par
is a little more difficult,\par
so this is the calculation we want to do,\par
and we're going to use Bayes' rule for that.\par
Again, it's a method for converting P of F given E,\par
which is easy sometimes,\par
to P of E given F, which is difficult sometimes.\par
What is Bayes' rule?\par
It just is a method such that\par
given a probability of F given E,\par
which, as we said, is typically easy,\par
and a little bit more information,\par
which we'll describe in a second,\par
we can determine the probability of E give F,\par
which might be hard.\par
Let's see the exact formula.\par
It says the probability of E given F, what we want,\par
is equal to the probability of F given E, that we have,\par
times the probability of E, divided by the probability of F.\par
In other words,\par
we see that we need the probability of F given E,\par
which is what we have, and then we need, also,\par
the probability of E and the probability of F,\par
so the little bit more here\par
is the probability of E and the probability of F,\par
and given these three things,\par
probability of F given E,\par
and then two regular probabilities,\par
they're not even conditional probabilities,\par
we can find the reverse probability,\par
probability of E given F.\par
Let's give a very simple proof of this,\par
a micro-proof if you want.\par
The probability of E given F, as we have seen many times,\par
is just the probability of the intersection,\par
divided by the probability of F,\par
and then we use the product rule,\par
and we can write this as the probability of F ...\par
I'm sorry, we can write this\par
as the probability of E times the probability of F given E,\par
divided by probability of F,\par
and this gives us a way\par
to calculate the probability of E given F\par
from the probability of F given E.\par
Again, the probability of E given F\par
is the probability of the intersection\par
divided by the probability of F,\par
but the intersection we can just write\par
as probability of E times the probability of F given E,\par
and then we get that.\par
Because this really is so important,\par
I'm going to give two more proofs of this,\par
of this very simple proof,\par
and clearly, they're all going to be almost the same,\par
but maybe we'll get\par
just a little bit more insight from them.\par
Here are the two views,\par
and again, they're not drastically different,\par
but hopefully will give us just slightly more insight.\par
Here, again, is the formula.\par
Probability of E given F\par
is the probability of E times the probability of F given E,\par
which at this point we have, divided by probability of F.\par
Another way to prove this is to start with\par
use the product rule twice,\par
so we can start with the probability of the intersection,\par
intersection F, symmetric,\par
so we can write it in two different ways.\par
We can write it as\par
the probability of E times the probability of F given E,\par
or we can now write it\par
as the probability of F times the probability of E given F,\par
and once we have it,\par
we can just rearrange and say that\par
the probability of E given F,\par
that's what we're interested in,\par
is this product of the two probabilities,\par
divided by the probability of F.\par
That's what we have here.\par
Another way, that's slightly more geometric,\par
is to write here the event E here is this alpha plus beta,\par
and the event F, which is beta plus gamma,\par
it's the sum of those two probabilities.\par
Then we can see that the probability of F given E,\par
we want the probability of F given E,\par
so we know that we are here in this region,\par
and we ask what is the probability that we are in F,\par
in beta, so it's going to be beta,\par
divided by alpha plus beta,\par
and we can ask what is the probability of E given F,\par
so now we're looking at the probability that we are here,\par
given that we are on the right side,\par
so it's the probability of this intersection,\par
divided by beta plus gamma,\par
so it's beta, divided by beta plus gamma.\par
The assumption we're making\par
is that we know the probability of F given E,\par
namely we know beta, divided by alpha plus beta,\par
this divided by that,\par
and we want to find beta, divided by beta plus gamma.\par
It's very clear what we want to do.\par
We want to take this value,\par
and we want to multiply it by alpha plus beta,\par
and then divide by beta plus gamma,\par
so multiply by alpha plus beta,\par
is we're going to multiply it by P of E,\par
that's this one here, and divide by beta plus gamma,\par
is going to divide by beta plus gamma,\par
which is P of F, so this is what we do.\par
Let's just write it down.\par
So P of E given F, which is what we want,\par
is we want beta, divided by beta plus gamma,\par
that's what we want,\par
but we have beta, divided by alpha plus beta,\par
so we take beta, divided by alpha plus beta,\par
multiply it by alpha plus beta, divide by beta plus gamma,\par
so this quantity here is P of F given E,\par
and this quantity here is P of E, and this one is P of F.\par
Hopefully, between these three proofs,\par
we can see why it's true,\par
and just as one way to kind of remember what to do,\par
if you want to calculate probability of E given F,\par
start with probability of F given E,\par
and then what you do is multiply by P of E,\par
safe to cancel, and then divide by P of F\par
to get the probability of E given F,\par
because when you multiply those, you get the intersection,\par
divide by F, you get the probability of E given F.\par
Just a way to remember as we continue.\par
I'll look at a couple of examples.\par
First, two coins.\par
Remember that Hi is the event that coin i is heads,\par
and exists heads is the event\par
that at least one coin is heads,\par
so we are interested in the probability\par
that the first coin is heads, given that exists heads,\par
that's the more difficult direction.\par
We can write it using Bayes' rule,\par
so this probability,\par
you can write it as the probability of exists H given H1,\par
it's the opposite of this,\par
and then we need to cancel the H1, and divide by P of H,\par
P of exists H, so it's that.\par
Now the probability of exists H given H1 is 1,\par
'cause if the first coin is one, then exists heads,\par
and then we need to multiply probability of\par
Let's just see what it is.\par
The probability of exists H given H1 is one.\par
The probability of H1 is 1/2.\par
What is the probability of exists H?\par
We have two coins.\par
The probability that we'll get at least one H is 3/4.\par
We saw that, actually, in the last video.\par
Now we just need to plug in the numbers,\par
so we get it's one times 1/2, divided by 3/4, which is 2/3.\par
In other words, given that exists H,\par
the probability that the first one is heads,\par
Bayes' rule tells us 2/3, hopefully that's what I said,\par
and the reason is quite simple.\par
We know that if exists H, heads, then the probabilities are\par
heads/tails, tails/heads, or heads/heads,\par
and the probability that the first one is heads\par
is in two out of those three.\par
I don't think I worked it here.\par
Okay, I did write it here,\par
so the probability that the first one is heads\par
given exists H, exists heads,\par
is the probability of the intersection,\par
divided by probability of exists heads,\par
and this is the sequence.\par
We know that exists heads, so we know that\par
in one of the top three,\par
and we're asking what is the probability\par
the first one is heads,\par
is the probability that we are in one of these two,\par
and that's going to be 2/3.\par
Next, let's look at two dice.\par
Di is the outcome of die i,\par
and S is the sum of the two dice,\par
so we're asking: what is the probability\par
that the first die is two, given that the sum is five?\par
We can write it using Bayes' rule,\par
as the probability that the sum is five\par
given that the first one is two,\par
namely the opposite of this,\par
and we need to cancel this,\par
and multiply by probability of D1 is two,\par
and then we need to divide by this\par
so we get the condition right,\par
so I divide by probability that S is five.\par
These quantities are easy to calculate.\par
The probability that S, sum,\par
is five given the first one is two,\par
is probability that second one is three,\par
given the first one is two,\par
and that's probability the second one is three,\par
which is 1/6, 'cause the dice are independent.\par
The probability that the first die is two is 1/6,\par
and the probability that the sum is five,\par
we calculated, again, last video, and we saw that it's 1/9.\par
Therefore we can plug in,\par
and we can say that this probability is going to be\par
1/6 times 1/6, divided by 1/9,\par
and that value is 1/4.\par
If you want to see why, another reason why,\par
another way to see that it's 1/4,\par
the probability that the first die is two\par
given that the sum is five,\par
is the sum of all possibility where the\par
so this is the\par
the sum of all possibility where the first die is two\par
and the sum is five,\par
divided by the total number of possibility\par
when the sum is five.\par
These are the possibilities where the sum is five:\par
one, four; two, three; three, two; and four, one.\par
So there are four possibilities here.\par
How many of them is the first die two?\par
It's just this one,\par
so there are\par
four possibilities for when the sum is five,\par
and in only one of them the first die is going to be two,\par
namely this one,\par
so the probability is going to be just one out of four.\par
Finally, let's look at the iPhone.\par
Just to remind ourselves, iPhone X is made,\par
I shouldn't call it Foxconn,\par
because we're talking about the bad iPhone\par
maybe the other companies,\par
and it's a good product.\par
Just to remind ourself,\par
we assume that there are three factories\par
that produce half of the iPhones, 30% of the iPhones,\par
and 1/5 of the iPhones,\par
and their defective rates are 4%, 10%, 5%, respectively,\par
and what we calculated in the previous video\par
is the probability that an iPhone will be defective\par
is the sum of 50% times 4%,\par
which is 2% of the bad iPhones are made here,\par
plus 30% times 10%, which is 3% made here,\par
plus 20% times one over twenty, which is 1% made here,\par
and when you sum those up,\par
we get that 6% of the iPhones are going to be defective.\par
What we want to ask now is,\par
suppose you buy an iPhone and it does have a green line?\par
What is the probability,\par
given that it is defective, it has a green line,\par
what is the probability that it's made by the first factory?\par
We can use Bayes' rule,\par
and write it's the probability of defective\par
given the first factory,\par
times the probability of the first factory,\par
that it was made by the first factory,\par
cancel here, divide by the probability of D.\par
We need to calculate these probabilities.\par
The probability of defective given the first factory,\par
that was 4%, as this was given to us.\par
The probability of the first factory was 50%.\par
That was also given to us.\par
And probability of defective is the 6% that we calculated\par
in the previous slide, or the previous lecture.\par
We can just now plug these in,\par
and we get that it's going to be\par
point four times point five, divided by point six,\par
which is the same as point two divided by point six,\par
which is 1/3.\par
We can similarly calculate the probability\par
that it's made by the second factory given it's defective,\par
and this is going to be the same.\par
The probability of defective is, again,\par
is going to be point six,\par
and then we calculate the probability\par
of defective given first factory,\par
which was 1% times 30%,\par
that are made by the first factory,\par
and this gives us 0.3 divided by 0.06, which is 1/2.\par
Then we can do the probability\par
of the third factory given it's defective.\par
We need to calculate the probability\par
of defective given the third factory,\par
which we were told is 5%,\par
times the probability of the third factory, which was 20%,\par
divided by the probability of defective,\par
which is, again, 6%, the same,\par
and so when we do that we get 1/6.\par
A couple of observation is that\par
these probabilities add to one,\par
so given that it's defective,\par
if you look at the probability\par
that it's made by the first one, the first factory, is 1/3,\par
second factory is 1/2, and third one is 1/6.\par
They add to one, so that's one observation.\par
The other observation is that\par
even though the first factory makes 50% of the phones,\par
the second factory makes 30% of the phones,\par
and the third factory makes 20% of the phones,\par
so this one makes many more iPhones.\par
The probability, if the phone is defective,\par
the probability that it comes from this factory\par
is actually smaller\par
than the probability it comes from the second one.\par
So conditional order is\par
the order of the conditional probabilities is determined\par
not just by which factory makes more phones,\par
but also the probability that the phone is defective.\par
So here, for example\par
I think I have a small typo here:\par
this should have been not .01, but just .1.\par
It was 10%.\par
That's an important difference.\par
So it's 10% probability\par
that the second factory made a defective phone.\par
Because this probability is so high,\par
if the phone is defective,\par
it's more likely to come from the second factory\par
than from the first one.\par
With that, we have used Bayes' rule\par
to even find the probability\par
that a defective phone was made in a different\par
a different iPhone was made in different places.\par
I think we have exhausted, for now, Bayes' rule,\par
and next time we're going to talk about random variables.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
Monty Hall Problem:\par
\par
Suppose you're on a game show, and you're given the choice of three doors. Behind one door is a car and behind the others are goats. You pick a door, say door 1. The host knows what is behind each door. He opens another door, say door 3, which has a goat. He then says to you, "Do you want to pick door 2?" Is it to your advantage to switch your choice?\par
\par
\tab\par
I will keep my choice of door 1.\par
\par
\tab\par
I will switch to door 2.\par
}
 