{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello everyone.\par
Last time we talked about probability of individual outcomes\par
and today we want to generalize things\par
and talk about the probablility of events.\par
So, an event.\par
What is it?\par
So sometimes we care about particular outcomes,\par
for example, we may care about the probability\par
that the horse we bet on will win a race.\par
Or we may care about the probablility\par
that we may get exactly B+ in a given class.\par
But, usually we are interested in\par
a set of possible outcomes.\par
For example, we're interested in the probability\par
that the temperature was going to be not too high,\par
lets say less than 65 degrees.\par
Or that our stock will close higher,\par
or will go up more than 10% and so on.\par
Or that we will pass a course\par
and that we will get a C or better.\par
So we understand the probablility of\par
not just given one particular outcome,\par
but a whole collection of outcomes, okay?\par
So for that we define event,\par
which is just a set of outcomes.\par
And therefore is a subset of the sample space,\par
which you recall, we denote by Omega, okay?\par
So when do we say that an event occur?\par
So an event is a subset of the sample space, Omega,\par
and which we denote by E as a subset of Omega.\par
And we say that it occurred, the event occurred,\par
if the random outcome X, falls inside E,\par
which is denoted by X belongs to E.\par
And, the probablility that the event will occur\par
is therefore just the probablility that X falls in this set.\par
Okay, so lets a few examples.\par
If you roll a die, then our sample space, Omega,\par
is the possible outcomes one up to six.\par
And lets look at the quote unquote, odd event,\par
that's the event that the outcome is odd.\par
So the outcome is one, three or five.\par
So the probablility that the odd event occurred,\par
probablility of odd is the probablility that outcome belongs\par
to one, three, five.\par
That's the probability that the face\par
that we observe is in one, three, five.\par
In other words, the probablility\par
that the face we see is odd, so it's very intuitive.\par
The probablility of odd, of the odd event,\par
is the probablility that the face is odd.\par
Similarly, if we are...\par
Sorry.\par
If we flip two coins, then the sample space, Omega,\par
is the consists of heads, heads,\par
the first coin falls head and the second head.\par
So, heads tails, tails heads, and so on.\par
And the event that both coin came up the same way is\par
consists of two outcomes, heads heads, and tails tails.\par
And, the probablility of this event\par
that the two outcomes were the same,\par
is the probablility that X1 and X2,\par
the first outcome and the second outcome are in this set.\par
Namely, they are either heads heads, or tails tails.\par
And it's the probablility that X1 equals X2 equals heads\par
or X1, the first outcome is the same as the second outcome,\par
and both are equal to tails.\par
And this is the probablility\par
that both coin show the same face.\par
Right.\par
Now what is the probablility of an event?\par
So remember that we are talking about uniform sample spaces,\par
so this point, we'll talk about more generally spaces later.\par
So because we are talking about uniform sample spaces,\par
the probablility of every outcome\par
is just one over the size of the sample space.\par
And therefore, the probablility of an event\par
is going to be the summation\par
of the probablility of all possible outcomes.\par
And in this event, so it's gonna be\par
the sum of all outcomes in this event E,\par
of one over Omega,\par
which is just the size of the event\par
divided by the size of the sample space.\par
So again, an example.\par
If we roll a die, the sample space consists of\par
the possible outcomes one up to six.\par
And the size of the sample space is six, therefore.\par
So if we look at the event where the outcome is even,\par
then the set of possible outcomes is two, four, and six.\par
The size of the event, the number of possible outcomes\par
that constitute this event is three.\par
And therefore the probablility of the event is three,\par
the number of outcomes in this event divided by six,\par
the number of possible outcomes, which is half.\par
And the reason again, that it's that\par
is all outcomes are equal likely,\par
so every outcome has probablility 1/6.\par
We're interested in three of them, two, four, and six.\par
And therefore the probablility is just three times 1/6,\par
which is one half.\par
Or if we're looking at the event that the outcome is odd,\par
that consists of outcomes one, three, and five.\par
The size of the set, the size of this event, is three.\par
And the probablility of this event is again 3/6,\par
which is 1/2 again.\par
And if we're looking at the event\par
that the outcome is square,\par
that the face that we see is either one,\par
which is one square of four, reaches two square,\par
the the size of this event is two.\par
Each element has probablility 1/6,\par
so therefore the total probablility that we see one or four,\par
or that the outcome is square, is 2/6, which is one third.\par
Now, if we flipped coins, then lets say two coins,\par
the sample space consists of heads heads,\par
heads tails, and so on.\par
The size of the sample space is four,\par
so we have said before.\par
Now what if we look at the event\par
that the two outcomes are the same,\par
that consists of heads heads, and tails tails.\par
The size of this event is two of this set,\par
so the probablility is 2/4, which is one half.\par
And if we look at two different,\par
that consists of heads tails, or tails heads,\par
the probablility of this event\par
is number of elements in this event,\par
which is two divided by the sample size, which is four,\par
so it's 2/4, which is a half.\par
If we flip three coins, we could ask,\par
so the sample space consists of\par
three sequences of three coin flips,\par
of three faces, heads heads heads to tails tails tails.\par
The number of such sequences is eight.\par
And if we look at the event that we have two heads,\par
exactly two heads amongst the outcomes,\par
that's the probablility that we have heads heads tails or,\par
heads tails heads or, tails heads heads.\par
And the probablility of this event\par
is three divided by eight.\par
And if you ask, if we look at the event,\par
that the results are alternating.\par
For example then, we're looking at tails heads tails or,\par
heads tails heads.\par
And the probablility of that event is 2/8,\par
which is a quarter.\par
Moving from coins to cards,\par
we remember that a standard deck consists of 52 cards.\par
And therefore, if we consider, for example,\par
the probablility that we'll observe a heart,\par
the event that we can observe a heart\par
means we observe one of the 13 hearts, Ace of hearts,\par
two of hearts, and so on,\par
so the probablility we'll see one of them is\par
the size of this event, the size of the set,\par
which is 13 divided by 52, which is a quarter,\par
and that's not surprising because there are four suits\par
all of them are equally likely,\par
so the probablility that we will observe a heart is 1/4.\par
And similarly, the probablility that we will observe a King,\par
any King, a King of hearts, King of spades, and so on,\par
is the number of different Kings there are,\par
the size of this event, which is four,\par
divided by the sample space size, which is 52,\par
so the probablility is 4/52, which is 1/13.\par
Again it's not surprising because there are 13 ranks,\par
each of them is equally likely,\par
so the probablility to observe a King is 1/13.\par
And the probablility that we'll observe a face card,\par
is the probability that we'll see a Jack,\par
a Queen, or a King.\par
And there are three such ranks,\par
and actually there should be four, not a six.\par
Four cards of each,\par
of each rank the four different suits.\par
And we divide by 52,\par
so the probablility is three times four divided by 52.\par
Or three divided by 13,\par
and again that's not surprising\par
because there are 13 ranks\par
and we're asking what's the probablility\par
that we'll see one of the faces,\par
one of these three and it's going to be 3/13.\par
If we move from a single card, to hand in poker,\par
then as we saw last time,\par
our deck again consists of 52 cards\par
and a hand consists of five cards from the deck.\par
And the card order doesn't matter so,\par
our sample space consists of all subsets of five cards.\par
The size of the sample space is therefore 52 choose 5,\par
which we calculated last time to be roughly 2.6 milllion.\par
And we now look at the probablility of specific hands.\par
We'll start with the more rare hands\par
and go to the more likely hands.\par
The reason is because the more likely hands are defined\par
typically as something happened,\par
but a more rare event did not happen.\par
So it's easier to do them, the rare events first.\par
So a straight is a consecutive rank sequence.\par
Where the Ace could precede the 2,\par
for example, if we have Ace, two, three, four, five,\par
or it could follow the King,\par
as in 10, Jack, Queen, King, and Ace.\par
So if you look at that you notice\par
that any set sequence will start anywhere from\par
an Ace all the way up to 10.\par
So, in a flush means the same suit.\par
So a straight flush means that\par
we have five consecutive cards\par
and they're all of the same suit.\par
It's both a straight and a flush.\par
For example, eight, nine, 10, Jack, and Queen,\par
and all of them are spades.\par
So we have five consecutive cards,\par
all of them the same suit, in this case a spade.\par
Now how many straight flushes are there?\par
How many hands are a straight flush?\par
So the size of this event,\par
the size of this straight flush event is,\par
the size is, we first need to choose the starting card,\par
the starting rank.\par
And we said this could go all the way from Ace to 10,\par
so there are 10 possibility and we need to choose one.\par
So it's 10 choose one,\par
it's a starting rank from Ace all the way to 10,\par
and then we need to choose the suit,\par
so it's the four choose one ways of doing that.\par
And so that's going to give us, 10 times four which is 40.\par
And because all possible hands are equal likely,\par
the probablility that we'll get one of these hands\par
is going to be 40/52 choose 5,\par
which is 0.00015%, rather low.\par
If we look at Four of a Kind,\par
then that means four cards of the same rank,\par
and another card, for example,\par
all four cards of rank four, four of clubs,\par
four of diamonds, four of hears, and four of spades.\par
And then a separate card\par
like eight of spades or any other card.\par
So how many hands are four of a kind?\par
So we first need choose the rank\par
of which we'll get all four cards.\par
So there are 13 ranks, which you need to choose one,\par
so the 13 choose 1 such ranks.\par
And once we chose that rank, we need to choose another card,\par
which is not in that rank.\par
And there are 52 cards altogether, but we already used four,\par
that are in this rank,\par
so we're left with 48 cards and we need to choose one.\par
So it's times 48 choose one, and that gives us 624.\par
And the probablility of Four of a Kind is therefore,\par
624 divided by 52 choose 5,\par
which is 0.02%.\par
Full House, is defined as three cards of one rank\par
and two cards of another rank.\par
For example, we have three fours, and two Jacks,\par
and the number of hands that are Full House,\par
we first need to decide on the rank of the triple,\par
and the rank of the pair.\par
In this case, we decided that triple has rank four,\par
and the pair has rank Jack.\par
So there are 13 ways to choose the rank of the triple,\par
and once we chose that, we have 12 ranks,\par
12 ways to choose the ranks of the pair.\par
So that number is 13 to the two falling power,\par
13 times 12.\par
And once we do that, we need to decide on three cards\par
from the rank of the triple,\par
cause there are four cards and we need to choose three.\par
So that's four choose three,\par
and then we need to decide on the two cards\par
from the rank of the pair, like in this case the Jack,\par
the four Jacks and we chose two, so that's four choose two.\par
And by the product rule, we need to take the product that\par
gives us 3744,\par
and the probablility is that divided by 52 choose five,\par
which is 0.14 roughly.\par
A Flush is,\par
as we said earlier,\par
is five consecutive cards of the same suit.\par
For example, four, five, 10, Ace,\par
all of them, in this case, clubs.\par
And these are nonconsecutive,\par
I'm not sure what I said before.\par
And we say nonconsecutive because\par
that will distinguish them from a straight flush,\par
where straight meant they were consecutive,\par
for example, four, five, six, seven, and so on.\par
so how many different Flush hands are there?\par
So we first need to choose the suit,\par
in this case we chose clubs,\par
so there are four suits, we choose one.\par
That's four choose one.\par
And then once we chose the suit,\par
we need to choose the five cards,\par
from the suit,\par
in this case, five cards out of the 13 clubs.\par
So that's 13 choose 5, but we want to make sure\par
that these five are not consecutive,\par
and as we saw there are 10 ways to choose\par
the consecutive cards, those that start with an Ace\par
all the way up to those that start with a 10,\par
so we need to subtract that number, which is 10,\par
so we get this product,\par
so this is what we subtracted and we get 5108.\par
And the probablility of a Flush is therefore\par
5108 divided by 52 choose five,\par
which 0.2% roughly,\par
so it's higher than what we have seen before.\par
Okay and in the homework,\par
we ask you to calculate the probablility\par
of additional hands, and as you can see\par
it's not that difficult.\par
So we'll end with a Straight,\par
which is five consecutive cards,\par
that are not all of the same suit.\par
And for example, eight, nine, ten, Jack, and Queen,\par
but they're not all of the same suit.\par
And again, as we said before,\par
the Ace can either precede the two or succeed the King.\par
So the number of Straight hands,\par
we need to specify the start location,\par
which is from Ace to 10, so there are 10 ways to do that.\par
And once we specified the Straight location,\par
we can choose a suit for every card,\par
so there are four suits and five cards,\par
so we can choose the suit for the first card,\par
the second one and so on.\par
So it's going to be four to the five,\par
but we have to make sure that these are\par
not all the same suit, and how many different ways can\par
we choose all of the same suit.\par
There are four suits we have to choose one,\par
so ts four choose one of 4.\par
So we need to subtract four,\par
and do that and then we get total number is 10,200.\par
And the probablility is roughly 0.4%, okay?\par
And as I said before, you'll have more in the homework.\par
So what have we done today?\par
We have looked at uniform spaces\par
and we looked at the probablility of\par
events in uniform spaces.\par
And next time we'll talk about general spaces, see you.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Discussion\par
}
 