{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello and welcome back.\par
In the last lectures,\par
we talked about events,\par
and now we would like to see what happens\par
when events get more complex.\par
So we're going to talk about compound experiments,\par
what happens when you have repetition,\par
we'll talk about what happens when you have\par
and don't have replacement,\par
and when order matters and does not.\par
So experiments often consist of several parts.\par
For example,\par
if a company evaluates a student for an internship,\par
they might look at the student's major,\par
what year they're in,\par
and what's their GPA.\par
So all these are random quantities\par
that depend on which student applies.\par
And if a company wants to place an ad\par
on a certain web page,\par
then they might consider what product they're trying\par
to advertise,\par
what's the audience for the product,\par
and what, how much does it cost.\par
Now, still we can view this,\par
these triples, in these cases,\par
as a single experiment, for example,\par
and it's just that the outcomes are a little more complex.\par
They consist of three values.\par
So, for example,\par
here for the student,\par
their major may be computer science,\par
they may be senior,\par
and their GPA could be 3.8,\par
and the product may be a book,\par
it's intended for teenagers,\par
and it costs, of course, $9.99.\par
Now, what we'll see here is that the outcome in these cases\par
is just a three-tuple,\par
and could of course be an ordered pair\par
or a four-tuple and so on.\par
And therefore the sample space,\par
the collection of all possible outcomes,\par
is a Cartesian product.\par
So you can see that these correspond quite well\par
to things that we have studied which,\par
not too long ago.\par
And what we would like to do is we would like\par
to combine results that we got\par
for analyzing individual components\par
to analyze this larger space that we're talking about now,\par
the Cartesian product, okay?\par
And of course we'll start simple.\par
So the, perhaps the simplest composite experiment\par
consists of repetition.\par
So that's when all experiments are of the same type.\par
For example, you might look at the daily stock prices.\par
So it's not like you have the major and then year and GPA,\par
they're each different,\par
but here's a sequence of numbers,\par
all of them reflect the same value.\par
There is, all of them reflect the price of the stock.\par
Or you might look at temperature.\par
Again, you have, it's a composite experiment,\par
consists of several outcomes,\par
but all of them reflect the same random experiment,\par
the temperature.\par
Or what we'll promote, most likely deal with,\par
are coin flips,\par
a simpler experiment,\par
so you could flip several coins or roll several dies\par
or draw several cards, okay?\par
And to begin with,\par
we'll assume that the experiments are independent,\par
namely, the different components are unrelated.\par
For, so that means, for example,\par
that if I flip two coins and the first coin turns up heads,\par
then the second coin still has 50% chance of being heads\par
and 50% chance of being tails.\par
So that's what we will deal with.\par
And rather than the case where\par
if the first coin turns up heads\par
then the second coin is more likely to also be heads.\par
That's not what we're considering now.\par
Consider the case where the outcome of the first coin\par
does not affect the probability of the second coin,\par
and that's what we call independent experiments.\par
All right, so let's look at the case of two coins,\par
perhaps the simplest case.\par
And we have, again, independent experiments.\par
So here's one and here's another.\par
And so the outcomes for coin one could be heads and tails,\par
and for coin two, they could also be heads and tails.\par
And what are the probabilities?\par
Well, coin one turns up heads with probability half\par
and tails with probability half,\par
and then coin two, regardless of this outcome,\par
is also heads with probability half\par
and tails with probability half.\par
And what that means is the probability that we get,\par
for example, heads-heads is half of the time,\par
this one will come up heads,\par
and then because of independence,\par
half of that half of the time,\par
or namely, a quarter of the time,\par
this one will come up heads.\par
So this will have probability of a quarter,\par
and everything else will also have probability of a quarter.\par
For example, this one's the probability\par
that the coin's tails-tails\par
because the first coin will come up tails half the time,\par
and half of that time, namely, a quarter of the, all time,\par
the second one will come up tails, as well.\par
All right, so a little more concisely,\par
we can say that the sample space omega\par
is the collection of heads-heads, heads-tails,\par
tails-heads, and tails-tails,\par
because we have two coins,\par
and we can see that it's indeed the Cartesian power,\par
it's h-tails squared.\par
And the size of this space is,\par
the size of omega is four\par
because there are four outcomes,\par
which is two squared, okay?\par
And if we have one coin,\par
then we're assuming that it's uniform, equal,\par
everything is equally likely, half-half.\par
And so what we saw here is that that implies\par
that when we have two coins,\par
it's also going to be uniform,\par
one quarter, one quarter, one quarter, one quarter,\par
and that's because every element here\par
is a product of two numbers,\par
but these two numbers are the same,\par
because this is a half and half,\par
and this is half and this is half,\par
so everything here is a product of two halves.\par
And so therefore it's all the same and they're uniform.\par
And that means that the probability of heads-heads\par
and heads-tails and so on is one over the sample size,\par
which is one quarter,\par
which agrees with what we have seen here.\par
In other words, we can do it,\par
we can get to one quarter in two ways.\par
We can just come multiply those numbers\par
and we see it's a quarter,\par
or we can just calculate the sample size,\par
which is four, in this case,\par
observe that everything is going to be uniform,\par
and then it's just going to be one over four.\par
All right, let's move from two to six.\par
So we're rolling two dice.\par
And again, independent experiments,\par
meaning the outcome of the first dice\par
is not going to affect the outcome of the second.\par
So die one can have six possible outcomes,\par
from one up to six,\par
and die two, also six possible outcomes from one to six.\par
And therefore the probability of every pair of outcomes\par
is going to be one sixth times one sixth,\par
one sixth here times one sixth here,\par
which is one over 36 for all 36 outcomes.\par
And again, we can say that the sample space\par
is the set of all pairs of faces,\par
one-one, one-two, up to six-six, okay?\par
And it's the same as one up to six squared,\par
and therefore the size of the new sample space\par
is six squared, which is 36,\par
so there are 36 possible outcomes.\par
With, if we, a single die is uniform,\par
and that's by assumption.\par
And therefore, that means that two dice\par
are also going to be uniform,\par
and that's because every value here is the product\par
of two numbers that are the same.\par
And therefore, every outcome has probability of one over 36.\par
Again, that's just a different way\par
of calculating these values\par
based on uniformity.\par
All right, so now just like we had with a single experiment,\par
we had the outcomes that we just discussed now,\par
and then we had events that are a collection of outcomes\par
or sets of outcomes.\par
We can have events in compound, composite spaces, as well.\par
So recall that when you have an event E,\par
it's just a collection of elements or possible outcomes,\par
and the probability of the event\par
is the probability that the X,\par
the random variable will fall inside this set.\par
And that's going to be,\par
because all these elements are disjoint,\par
it's going to be summation of all elements in the event\par
of the probability.\par
And now in the case that the space is uniform,\par
then the probability of the event\par
is just the size of the event divided by the size of omega,\par
and that's because every element is probability\par
one over the size of omega,\par
and there are so many of them.\par
And so in our case, two coins, it's uniform,\par
and the sample space size is two squared, which is four,\par
heads-heads, tails-tails, and so on,\par
four possible outcomes.\par
So, for example, the probability of the event\par
that the outcomes are different\par
is the probability that we get heads-tails or tails-heads.\par
There are two possible outcomes here,\par
so the probability is two\par
divided by the size of the sample space, which is four,\par
so two over four is one half.\par
And the probability that we'll see at least one heads\par
is the probability we'll see heads-tails or tails-heads\par
or heads-heads.\par
There are three possible outcomes\par
divided by the sample size,\par
we get three over four.\par
And if we have three coins,\par
then again, it's uniform.\par
We have sample space eight.\par
And we can ask what is the probability\par
that the outcomes are alternating,\par
for example, heads-tails-heads or tails-heads-tails.\par
So we've got two over eight, which is one quarter.\par
And we can also ask what is the probability\par
that we see an odd number of heads.\par
That's the probability of this event or this set.\par
And there are four elements,\par
each one is probability one eighth,\par
so the probability is one half.\par
Probability that odd number of heads is one half, okay?\par
Now, I want to move on from coins and dice\par
to slightly more general experiments.\par
So there are many sources, possible sources of randomness,\par
and we have seen coin and dice as we were discussing.\par
And, but often we get,\par
what we get is we sample,\par
or in other words, select some physical objects.\par
For example, we may have a study of several patients,\par
and every outcome is,\par
we get a patient and we test the patient,\par
so we get some physical people coming.\par
Or the customers who come to a restaurant,\par
and we sample them.\par
Or we get products for quality control,\par
so we want to check several products.\par
We select a certain number of them\par
and we check each one,\par
so each one is a physical object.\par
And, or we can have visitors to a web page.\par
Again, those are people who come and visit our web page.\par
And if you want to do something a little simpler,\par
then we can set it to select cards from a deck.\par
So we have a deck of cards.\par
That's a collection of physical objects,\par
and we're going to select some of them.\par
Or we have balls in an urn\par
and we're going to pick some of them.\par
Again, it's a collection of physical objects.\par
And when we talk about physical objects,\par
there are two ways of sampling them.\par
One is with and without replacement,\par
and that's what we're going to discuss next.\par
So we're talking about\par
sequentially selecting physical objects,\par
and you can do it with or without replacing, as we said.\par
With replacement means that we replace or reuse\par
every selected item.\par
So when we select an item,\par
we put it back in the collection,\par
and then we might use it again.\par
And in that case we can see that this leads\par
to independent experiments,\par
because once we put the element in, back in the pile,\par
then we have the original experiment that we had.\par
And in particular, outcomes can repeat.\par
And so this is,\par
even though we're selecting from objects,\par
this is like coins and dice\par
that we get experiments that are independent\par
and the outcome can repeat.\par
For example, in a coin, we can get heads and heads\par
twice or more, okay?\par
The other case is that we select without replacement,\par
and that's when we do not replace the selected element.\par
And then the experiments are dependent,\par
because at any given point,\par
we have, we select an element, we don't repeat it,\par
so now we're performing a different experiment.\par
And in particular,\par
the same outcome cannot repeat, okay?\par
Now, we can see that if the sample,\par
if the sample space omega is very large,\par
then these two would be the same\par
because we will never get a repetition.\par
The fact we took one element out\par
will not make any difference.\par
But in general, there could be a difference,\par
or there is a difference between these two routines.\par
Okay, so let's...\par
I want to say a little bit more about replacement,\par
what happens when you select with and without replacement\par
and whether you can repeat the same element twice.\par
So when you sample or select an element\par
with replacement or without,\par
then if you do it with replacement,\par
then you, every time you perform the experiment,\par
it's, you repeat it as if from scratch,\par
because you took an element,\par
you look at it, you see what it is,\par
you put it back in the pile,\par
and you sample again.\par
When you do it without replacement,\par
you repeat with a smaller set, okay?\par
And therefore in the case of selecting with replacement,\par
the same element can appear,\par
whereas if you select without replacement,\par
the same element cannot appear twice,\par
cannot be selected again.\par
So let's see an example.\par
So, for example,\par
we said that if you select with replacement,\par
it's like choosing, flipping a coin.\par
So we can get tails and we can get tails again,\par
that's okay.\par
Or if we roll a die,\par
then we can get six and then six again,\par
and then it's okay.\par
But if we draw cards,\par
then if we select a queen,\par
we will not be able to select a queen again.\par
Or if we create a committee,\par
then select a person,\par
then it might not be advisable or possible\par
to select that person again.\par
So that won't happen.\par
So we're going to show two experiments,\par
and just like we did before with,\par
when we had the coins and the dice,\par
we're going to do an example with two values\par
and then an example with six values.\par
So let's look at balls in a jar.\par
So imagine that you have a jar with two balls\par
marked one and two, like that, okay?\par
So these are two billiard balls.\par
And we pick one of them.\par
Let's say we pick this ball marked two.\par
Now what we're going to do is we're not going to replace it.\par
We're not going to put it back in the jar.\par
And we're going to pick a second ball,\par
which necessarily will be ball number one, okay?\par
So as a result,\par
we pick ball number two\par
and then we pick ball number one.\par
Okay, now, of course we could pick them\par
in a different order.\par
Now, notice that the second selection here\par
was a selection from a subset,\par
because we selected just from this element.\par
We didn't select from the whole thing.\par
And therefore these two experiments are dependent.\par
In particular, they cannot,\par
the results cannot be the same, obviously.\par
Okay, so this is selection without replacement.\par
And so what are the probabilities?\par
So for the first ball, we have two options,\par
and each of them is probability half, okay?\par
But now for the second ball,\par
here are the two balls.\par
Notice that if we pick the first ball,\par
then we cannot, if we pick ball number one,\par
we cannot pick ball number one again.\par
So this will have zero probability\par
and necessarily we'll actually pick ball number two, okay?\par
So that means that picking ball number one here\par
has zero probability,\par
and thus picking ball number one and ball number two\par
has probability half.\par
It's probability half.\par
Half the time we're picking ball number one\par
and then we'll always pick ball number two next, okay?\par
And then for ball number two has probability half,\par
and then we necessarily pick ball number one.\par
And so this has probability half,\par
and picking ball number two twice has probability zero.\par
So what we see is that we'll always pick\par
two different balls,\par
either one followed by two or two followed by one, okay?\par
And these are equally likely.\par
Each of them has probability half.\par
Whereas picking the same ball twice\par
has probability zero, okay?\par
And so our sample space consists of\par
picking ball one and then two\par
or ball two and then one,\par
each of them is equally likely,\par
so the size of the sample set in this case is two.\par
Each of them is equally likely, they're uniform,\par
and therefore the probability of picking one-two\par
is the same as the probability of picking two-one,\par
which is one half.\par
So that's another way of observing this just by uniformity.\par
So next let's see an example with six possible values\par
of drawing cards, okay?\par
So imagine you have six cards.\par
Here they are.\par
And you draw one card.\par
Let's say you pick number five.\par
And now you do not put it back in the pile.\par
You keep it like, the pile as it is.\par
And then you draw another one\par
without replacing the first one.\par
For example, maybe you took card number three, okay?\par
So, and you can see\par
that this is selection without replacement\par
because we did not put the card number five back, okay?\par
So what are the possible outcomes?\par
The possible outcomes for the sample space,\par
you could get one-two,\par
pick card one first, card two first,\par
up to one-six,\par
and then two-one, you cannot pick two-two,\par
but two-six and so on,\par
and if you list them alphabetically,\par
the last one you could get is six-five,\par
because you cannot pick six-six again, twice.\par
And so what is the size of,\par
what is the set?\par
This is the set of all two-permutation\par
of one up to six, right?\par
This is two-permutation of one up to six,\par
namely one-two and so on.\par
Selecting two different elements from one up to six.\par
And what is the size of this set?\par
It's six to the second falling power\par
or six times five,\par
because we have six options for the first card\par
and then five options for the second card,\par
which is 30.\par
So we've got 30 possible outcomes.\par
So next let's look at the probability.\par
So first let's list the cards.\par
So the cards can go one up to six for the first one\par
and one up to six for the second one.\par
And notice that we cannot get one-one or two-two\par
or three-three,\par
so this diagonal is going to be zero.\par
But if i is not equal to j,\par
then the probability we get i and then j is one sixth\par
is the probability of getting the first card,\par
let's say five,\par
we have the probability one sixth of getting it.\par
And once we got it,\par
we have five cards left,\par
and we had to choose one of those five values\par
which were different than this number five,\par
and each of them had probability one fifth,\par
so it's one sixth times one fifth,\par
which is one 30th.\par
So we get that all the,\par
all possible values,\par
namely ij, i and j are different,\par
have probability one over 30, okay?\par
And again, we could get this also by uniformity.\par
We can observe that all possible outcomes,\par
namely, all off diagonal elements here are equally likely,\par
because each of them has the same probability.\par
It happens to be one sixth times one fifth,\par
but we don't care right now.\par
We just care that each of them has the same probability\par
because we have equally likely probability\par
of selecting any of these\par
and then equally likely probability\par
of selecting any of those.\par
And so then we observe that we have a uniform space here\par
of size 30,\par
so the probability is one over 30, okay?\par
So to summarize,\par
we considered two experiments here,\par
and we looked at outcomes with replacement,\par
experiments with replacements where the outcomes can repeat,\par
and we looked at something without replacement\par
where the outcomes cannot repeat.\par
So if the original sample space we call omega one,\par
then when we select with replacement,\par
then the possible outcomes of the set x,y\par
such that x and y are in\par
this original sample space omega one,\par
and this is the same as omega one squared,\par
the Cartesian product of omega one with itself.\par
Whereas if we looked at selection without replacement,\par
then of the set of all possible outcomes\par
for the set of all x,y\par
that x and y are in omega one original sample space\par
and they are different,\par
and that's the same as the collection\par
of all two-permutations of omega one.\par
That's this collection of all x,ys\par
such that x is not equal to y.\par
Now, if we consider the size of the sample space,\par
then for the original space, it's omega one.\par
For example, if we had the cards, it was six.\par
And if we select with replacement,\par
then the size is omega one squared, okay?\par
So, for example, if we have a die,\par
we can select with replacement,\par
there are 36 possible outcomes.\par
Or if we select without replacement,\par
it's this cardinality of the size of this sample space,\par
which is the size of omega one\par
raised to the second falling power,\par
which is the same as the size of omega one\par
times the size of omega one minus one, okay?\par
Now, this is true in general.\par
Now, if the sample space originally was uniform,\par
like the ones we have discussed,\par
then there's further simplification.\par
So, first of all,\par
we get that the sample space with replacement is uniform.\par
For example, when you roll a die, two dice,\par
then all possible combinations of outcomes\par
are equally likely.\par
And likewise the collection,\par
for the collection of all possible outcomes\par
without replacement,\par
these are all possible elements\par
in this space where x is not equal to y,\par
they're all uniform,\par
they're all equally likely,\par
and therefore the probability of any element,\par
and when you select with replacement,\par
is just going to be,\par
so first I found the original space,\par
it's one over the size\par
of whatever the original cardinality was.\par
In the case of a die, it's one over six.\par
In the case of selection with replacement,\par
it's one over this cardinality squared.\par
For example, for a die,\par
it's one over six squared or one over 36.\par
That's the probability of every pair.\par
And when we select without replacement,\par
for example, for the cards that we just talked about,\par
it's going to be, as you can see here on the right,\par
it's going to be one over the cardinality\par
of the original space\par
times that cardinality minus one.\par
So, for example,\par
if we look at the cards,\par
it's going to be one over six times five\par
or one over 30.\par
So for the coin, it's one over 36.\par
For the cards, it's one over six times five,\par
or one over 30, okay?\par
Now, so now that we talked about the selection\par
with and without replacement,\par
I wanna talk about another possible difference is,\par
and that is that order may or may not matter.\par
So sometimes order matters.\par
For example, if you buy a stock\par
and the value on one day is 10\par
and on the other day is 50,\par
it's very different than if the day,\par
the value when you bought it was 50\par
and the next day is 10.\par
So the order here matters.\par
In the other case,\par
some other times the order may not matter.\par
For example, if you have elections\par
and the first person votes Democrat,\par
the second one votes Republican,\par
it doesn't matter,\par
because you're just going to see in the end\par
how many people voted for which party.\par
So, or if you go and buy some stuff at the grocery store,\par
then typically it doesn't matter\par
what order you're going to put,\par
get the things and put them in\par
so long as you don't put the strawberries\par
at the very bottom.\par
So you can put them in any order you want.\par
You just care what are the ingredients that you have, okay?\par
So when order does not matter,\par
then instead of looking...\par
So what we have looked at until now is when order matters,\par
because we looked at the tuples.\par
Like, we looked the first value and the second value.\par
When the order does not matter,\par
the tuple of outcomes that we have looked at until now\par
becomes just the set of outcomes.\par
For example, if the outcome of the two dice\par
were two and five or five-two,\par
if the order doesn't matter,\par
both of them will translate into the set \{2,5\},\par
the set that we got two and five.\par
And this corresponds to the event that we got\par
either two-five,\par
either got two then five or five then two.\par
So every possible outcome\par
is now a set of two possible outcomes\par
and corresponds to an event,\par
in this case, of two different original outcomes.\par
And if the original outcome is four-four,\par
it will correspond to the set \{4,4\},\par
which you can identify if you want with the set \{4\}.\par
And then, again,\par
that's the event that we got just this one element, okay?\par
So what we want to do is we want to calculate\par
the probability when the order doesn't matter,\par
and we're going to do it using example\par
where we consider what happens when you select\par
values one up to six twice,\par
and we'll show it when the order matters\par
and when it doesn't matter.\par
Okay, so we'll do it with,\par
and we'll do it with and without replacement, okay?\par
So with replacement,\par
you have two cards,\par
and, one up to six,\par
and you select them with replacement.\par
So that's the same as you have two dice,\par
because you replace the card back.\par
It's the same as you have two dice and you roll them.\par
We've got the first card could be any number\par
between one up to six,\par
and then the second card could also be any number\par
between one up to six,\par
and as we have seen, the prob-,\par
there are 36 possible outcomes,\par
and each of them is probability one over 36, okay?\par
So then the probability that we have one-two,\par
the set \{1,2\},\par
we don't care about the order,\par
it's the probability that we get either one-two or two-one,\par
first one then two or first two then one.\par
And these two are disjoint events,\par
so one-two is a different sequence than two-one.\par
So the probability we'll get this one or that one\par
is the sum of the two probabilities,\par
which is two over 36, okay?\par
And what is the probability that we'll get one-one?\par
The probability we'll get one-one\par
is just the probability that the set \{1,1\}\par
is exactly the same as saying that we got one the first time\par
and one in the second time.\par
It's the probability of this event,\par
which is one over 36, okay?\par
So in other words,\par
the probability that we get\par
an outcome of two different values\par
when we select two cards from one to six with replacement\par
or we roll two dice\par
is just going to be two over 36,\par
and the probability that we'll get one-one, for example,\par
an outcome where the two values are the same,\par
is one over 36, okay?\par
And just as a sanity check,\par
we want to see that the probabilities sum to one.\par
So we have six choose two possible outcomes\par
with two different values,\par
and each one is probability two over 36,\par
and then we have plus six of six choose one\par
possible outcomes where the values are the same,\par
and each one's probability one over 36.\par
So the probability that we get two different values\par
six choose two is six times five over two,\par
which is,\par
and the six will cancel here with six\par
and two will cancel with two,\par
so we get five over six here.\par
And here we get six over 36,\par
which is one over six,\par
and they sum to one.\par
So that's okay.\par
So just remember that when we select with replacement\par
from six values\par
and they're equally likely and uniform,\par
then the probability of getting an outcome\par
with two different values,\par
for example, one-two,\par
to specifically say one-two or two-three,\par
is two over 36.\par
The probability of getting a specific outcome\par
with two values that are the same is just half that,\par
because you don't have the option of choosing\par
which one came first and which one came second.\par
They have, the same outcome has to turn up on both cases.\par
All right.\par
And now let's see what happens without replacement.\par
So imagine that you have two cards,\par
again, from one to six,\par
but now we select them without replacement.\par
So as we saw,\par
if we looked at the probability of selecting, say,\par
card two and then card three,\par
then for every i not equal to j,\par
the probability we'll select i and then j is one sixth.\par
The probability of selecting i and then, one fifth,\par
the probability of selecting j,\par
because j is not equal to i,\par
so we have five options,\par
is, so it's one over 30th,\par
and that's listed here.\par
So for the probability of picking\par
the same number twice is zero,\par
but the probability of picking two and then one is one 30th.\par
The probability of picking one and then two\par
is also one over 30.\par
And so this is what we,\par
so therefore the probability that we get the set \{1,2\},\par
if the order doesn't matter,\par
the probability we got one and two\par
is the probability we get one-two or two-one,\par
which is, 'cuz they are disjoint,\par
is the probability of one-two\par
plus the probability of two-one,\par
which is two over 30, okay?\par
Now, the probability we get one-one is going to be zero\par
because we cannot get the same value twice.\par
So now if you want to check that,\par
we need to see that these probabilities sum to one,\par
then observe that we have,\par
so we can ignore the pairs with the same probability,\par
but now let's look at pairs with,\par
pairs with same value.\par
Let's look at pairs with different values,\par
for example, one-two.\par
The number of pairs of values is gonna be six choose two,\par
and then each one has a probability, as we said,\par
two over 30th, two over 30.\par
But six choose two is just six times five over two,\par
and that would cancel and give us one, okay?\par
So there's an alternative view\par
when you select elements without replacement.\par
So what we have said now is that you select two cards\par
and we do it sequentially without replacement,\par
and then the probability that you get one-two,\par
that you see one-two when the order does not matter\par
is the probability that you saw one and then two\par
or two followed by one,\par
and that was going to be equal to one 30th.\par
One, two over 30.\par
But alternatively,\par
what you could say is that you select both cards\par
instantaneous, simultaneously.\par
Because you're selecting two cards,\par
you don't care about the order,\par
so you could just imagine that you select both of them\par
at the same time.\par
And so now the sample space consists of one,\par
collection of all sets of size two,\par
two-element sets.\par
So it's \{1,2\}, \{1,3\}, up to \{5,6\},\par
and there are six choose two possible pairs, right?\par
Choosing two elements out of the set one up to six.\par
And so the size of the set is six choose two, right?\par
'Cuz this is the set consisting of all two elements,\par
two-element subsets of one up to six.\par
The number is, of such subsets is six choose two,\par
and six choose two is, as we know, is 30,\par
six times five over two.\par
Now, notice that this is uniform\par
because we picked just two elements, okay?\par
Two cards.\par
And so it's uniform,\par
and therefore the probability that we get\par
any particular pair of two different values,\par
say, \{1,2\},\par
is just one over 15, okay?\par
So, because the size here is six times five divided by two,\par
which is 30 divided by two, which is 15,\par
and the probability of any given value is one over 15,\par
which agrees with the calculation that we did before.\par
So this is just maybe a little more direct way of doing it\par
instead of saying we pick the elements sequentially\par
and then we multiply by the number of sequences\par
that would give us the outcome we want.\par
We said since we don't care about the order,\par
then we can just look at how many different subsets\par
of size two there are\par
and pick just the subset of size two\par
out of 15 possible subsets.\par
We picked one,\par
so the probability is going to be one over 15.\par
And this we can use when we select more than just two cards.\par
So, for example, in poker,\par
a deck consists of 52 cards,\par
and your hand consists of five cards from the deck,\par
and the card order does not matter.\par
So, for example,\par
so in this case, omega,\par
the sample space consists of all possible hands\par
of size five,\par
and the size of omega,\par
the number of different hands is 52 choose five,\par
because we have 52 cards,\par
and we have 52 choose five different hands.\par
And this is 52 factorial\par
divided by five factorial 47 factorial,\par
which is this number, 52 down to 48\par
divided by five times one.\par
There's a lot of cancellations going on.\par
For example, five and two, times two is 10,\par
which we can cancel with the 50,\par
so cancel the five and the 10,\par
and likewise we can have then four times three times two\par
which is 24, cancel 48, two.\par
And we do that, we get roughly 2.6 million, okay?\par
And that means,\par
and also notice that this space is uniform.\par
Every hand is equally likely.\par
And so the probability of any given hand\par
is one over 2.6 million, okay?\par
So, and we'll talk a lot more about it\par
in the next lecture, okay?\par
So to summarize,\par
we talked about compound experiments,\par
and then we looked at a specific type\par
of compound experiments\par
where we repeat the experiment more than once.\par
We talked about selection with and without replacement,\par
and we talked about the probabilities when the order matters\par
and when it did not.\par
And what we're going to do next time,\par
we're going to look at some games of chance.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Discussion\par
}
 