{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello again, everyone.\par
In the last few videos we talked about probability\par
and today we want to look at the nuance version\par
called conditional probability.\par
So, first let's motivate it.\par
So, often we have partial information about the world\par
and we would like to use it\par
to get better probability estimates\par
and we would like to know how it modifies\par
the probability of events.\par
For example, if the unemployment numbers are down,\par
then it might affect the stock prices\par
and we want to see how that would happen\par
and, similarly, in San Diego, if it's a sunny weekend,\par
everyone wonders how many people are going\par
to go to the beach and we might want to see\par
what are the probabilities under these sunny conditions,\par
how are they different from not knowing the weather?\par
And this conditional probability is important in two ways,\par
first of all, because knowing he information helps us\par
improve our probability estimates and, therefore,\par
helps us better address the conditions that are in effect,\par
and also, they often help us determine\par
regular probabilities more easily as we're going to see.\par
So, let's start with an intuitive definition\par
of what we mean by conditional probability.\par
So, let E and F be events\par
and suppose that E happened.\par
Someone told us that some event, E, happened.\par
For example, it's sunny.\par
We would like to know what is the probability of F given E,\par
the probability that F happens given that E has happened.\par
And, as we know, we are defining to be the fraction\par
of times that E happens when we also know that F happens.\par
So, let me repeat.\par
We would like to look at all the times that E has happened\par
and we are interested in the fraction of those times\par
that F also happened.\par
For example, if we have a fair die and we ask\par
what is the probability that we get the number two\par
given the number is even, namely if someone tells us\par
that the number is even and we want to know,\par
in that case, what is the probability\par
or what is the fraction of times that we'll see a two?\par
Then, we would look at a very long sequence,\par
for example, this one.\par
We'll see all the numbers that we got even values,\par
like here, two, six, four, two, four, six, and so on,\par
and then, we're interested in the fraction of those times\par
that we'll get a two.\par
So, there's six in the fraction dice and we get two.\par
In this case, it's two over six, which is one third.\par
So, we would like to determine what fraction\par
of the times did we see a six or we see an even number,\par
the number is two.\par
Okay.\par
So, let's do a few examples again with a die.\par
So, remember that the probability of any number,\par
including the probability of the number four,\par
is one sixth and if you want\par
to calculate the probability of observing a four\par
given that someone told us that the value\par
is bigger or equal to three,\par
then we're looking at a probability of four\par
given the values three, four, five, and six.\par
Now, because all of these values are equal likely,\par
three, four, five, and six,\par
the fraction of those times that we'll see a four\par
will be one fourth.\par
Similarly, if we're looking at a probability of four\par
given that the value is less than or equal to three\par
then, we're interested in the fraction of times\par
that we'll see a four when someone told us\par
that the values are one, two, or three.\par
So, clearly, whenever we see one, two, or three,\par
we'll never see a four, so it's going to be zero\par
divided by three or zero.\par
We can also look at the probability of not just\par
a single value, like four, but a more general event,\par
which is the probability that the value is\par
less than or equal to two,\par
which is just the probability of one, two,\par
which is one third and now,\par
let's see what happens when we are told something\par
about the outcome when we're conditioning.\par
So, what is the probability the value is less than two\par
give that someone told us that it's less than\par
or equal to four?\par
We're interested in the probability that it's one or two,\par
conditioned on the value being one, two, three, four,\par
and, since again, all these values one, two, three, four\par
equal likely and we're interested in the probability\par
of just two of them,\par
the probability is going to be two over four,\par
which is one half.\par
And, finally, the probability that the value\par
is going to be less than or equal to two\par
give that it's bigger than or equal to two,\par
that's the probability that we see one or two\par
given that someone told us the value is two, three,\par
four, five, or six.\par
So, clearly we're interested only in the case\par
that the value that we see is two\par
because one cannot happen given that the value\par
we're told is bigger to or equal to two.\par
So, we're interested in the probability that two happened\par
given that the values were two up to six,\par
which is going to be one fifth.\par
Notice that, in some cases, like in the first case,\par
probability of less than or equal to two\par
given less than and including four\par
the probability of the event has increased.\par
If we're told that the value is less than or equal to four,\par
we've reduced the number of possibilities\par
and kept the original two values,\par
so the probability went from one third to one half,\par
whereas, if someone told us that the number\par
was bigger than or equal to two,\par
then we now have five possibilities,\par
but there's only one of them that is possible, namely two,\par
and the probability went down from one third to one fifth,\par
so it decreased.\par
Let's do the more general case,\par
but still staying with uniform spaces, for now.\par
So, we're interested in the probability\par
of a general event, F, given some other event,\par
E, has happened and, as we know,\par
that's the probability that our outcome\par
is going to be an F in the event F\par
given that the outcome was an E.\par
So, here is a Venn diagram of E and F\par
and we're told that the outcome was in E\par
and we're asking what is the probability that it's in F\par
given that it's in E,\par
but if it's in E, we're told,\par
and we are interested in the event that it's an F,\par
then it must be both in E, which we were told,\par
and in F, that we are interested in.\par
So, we are interested in this area, in E intersection F,\par
and we're asking what is the probability\par
of this light area, intersection F,\par
given that it was in E\par
because that's the probability that X\par
is in the intersection of E and F.\par
That is the case where X is in E and X is in F\par
given that X is in E\par
and because we are looking at uniform spaces,\par
then all the elements in here are equal, likely,\par
and the number of those elements is the size of E,\par
the cardinality of E\par
and out of them, we're interested in the elements\par
that are in the intersection, F,\par
and the other cardinality is the cardinality\par
of intersection, F.\par
So, the probability is just a ratio of intersection, F\par
divided by the cardinality of E.\par
So, let's do an example.\par
So, if we have a fair die and we are asking\par
what is the probability of observing a prime\par
given that we observe an odd number?\par
So, we are looking at the probability\par
of observing two, three, or five,\par
those are the primes between one and six,\par
given that we observe an odd outcome,\par
namely one, three, five.\par
As we just saw, it's just going to be the cardinality\par
of the intersection, two, three, five intersection\par
with one, three, five divided by\par
the cardinality of odd,\par
which is the cardinality of one, three, five.\par
So, it's the cardinality of one, three, and five\par
divided by the cardinality of one, three, five,\par
which is two thirds.\par
If we want the probability of observing four\par
given that we're told a prime has occurred,\par
we're looking at the probability of four\par
given that two, three, five has occurred,\par
we're looking, therefore, at the cardinality\par
of four intersection with two, three, five,\par
divided by the cardinality of a prime,\par
so we're looking at the cardinality of the empty set\par
divided by the number of elements in two, three, five,\par
which is just zero, okay?\par
Now, this was for the case of uniform spaces\par
where it was just the number of elements\par
in the intersection divided by the number of elements\par
in the event we have conditioning on.\par
In general, we have almost the same result.\par
So, we want to find the probability of F given E,\par
which, just like we've seen before,\par
is just he probability that X is in the intersection\par
of E and F\par
given that X is in E,\par
except that now we cannot look at the cardinality\par
of those sets because the elements\par
have different probabilities.\par
So, this is going to be the number of times\par
that we'll have an element in the intersection F,\par
the number of times we'll have an element here.\par
It's a fraction of the number of times\par
we'll have an element from E, okay?\par
So, the number of times we'll have an element from E\par
is N times P of E when N is very large\par
and the number of times we'll have and element in E,\par
intersection F, is N times P of intersection F\par
and N cancels, so we get the probability of F given E\par
is a probability of the intersection of E and F\par
divided by the probability of E.\par
So, that's the basic formula for conditional probability.\par
If you want to find the probability of an event F\par
given another event, E,\par
we need to look, first of all, in the intersection\par
of the two events, E and F.\par
We need to look at that probability.\par
So, looking at this if you want to think of this probability\par
or this area, here, divided by the total probability\par
of the whole thing, here.\par
So, it's the fraction of times\par
that we'll see and element from E,\par
the fraction of time that we'll also see\par
and element in the intersection.\par
So, let's look at an example.\par
Remember our four sided die, it has four sides,\par
one, two, three, and four\par
with a probability of point one, point two,\par
point three, and point four\par
and if we're interested in the probability\par
that the outcome is bigger than or equal to two\par
given that it's less that or equal to three,\par
then, by what we have just said,\par
it's the probability that it's both bigger than\par
or equal to two and less than or equal to three.\par
This just means that we know that it's less than\par
or equal to three because we are told that\par
and we're looking at the cases where it's bigger than\par
or equal to two, so we're concerned\par
with the sides that are between two and three\par
and we divide it by the probability\par
it's less than or equal to three.\par
So, this is going to be the probability of two, three, four\par
intersection with one, two, three,\par
the intersection of these two events\par
and divided by the probability of one, two, three.\par
So, it's the probability of two and three,\par
that's the intersection divided by the probability\par
of one, two, and three.\par
Now, the probability of two and three,\par
because the probabilities are the same\par
as the values, just normalized by ten,\par
so that's going to be point five divided by point six,\par
which is five sixths.\par
This conditional probability gives us\par
and equivalent product rule.\par
So, the conditional probability says the probability\par
of F given E is the probability of the intersection\par
of E and F divided by the probability of E,\par
and we can rewrite it as the probability\par
of the intersection is just the probability of E\par
times the probability of F given E\par
and this helps us calculate regular non-conditional\par
probabilities in some cases, as we'll see right now.\par
So, here we have one blue ball\par
and two red balls\par
and we're going to do our two balls\par
and we're asking what is the probability\par
that both of them are red?\par
So, we have seen before how to do it\par
just using permutations and combinations,\par
but we'll now see and easier way\par
using conditional probabilities.\par
So, let R1 be the event that the first ball is red\par
and R2 be the event that the second ball is red.\par
So, the probability that both are red\par
is the probability of R1 intersection with R2,\par
when both happen, and that's going to be equal\par
to the probability of R1 times the probability\par
of R2 given R1.\par
Now, what is the probability of R1 is two thirds, right?\par
Because we have two red balls and one blue,\par
so if we take one at random,\par
the probability that it will be red will be two thirds\par
and once we do that, then, if R1 happened,\par
then we take out one red ball\par
and we would be left with one blue ball\par
and one red ball and then, the probability of R2\par
happening given R1 happening is one half,\par
so it's two thirds times one half,\par
which is one third, okay?\par
So, this is an example of how conditional probability\par
helps us calculate regular probability\par
in a simpler way.\par
The product rule can be generalized,\par
so if we have three events, we can write the probability\par
of E intersection F intersection G\par
is the probability you can write it as probability\par
of intersection F and G\par
and by the standard product rule or basic product rule\par
it's probability of E F times the probability of G\par
given that E F happened and then,\par
we can break probability of E and F happening\par
and write its probability of E times probability of F\par
given E times probability of G given E and F,\par
and similarly, if you have more events.\par
So, in this video, we talked about conditional probability\par
and in the next one, we're going to talk about independence.\par
See you next time.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
If events A and B are disjoint, what is P(A|B)?\par
\par
\tab\par
0\par
\par
\tab\par
1/2\par
\par
\tab\par
1\par
\par
\tab\par
1/4\par
\par
}
 