{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello again, everyone.\par
In the last video we talked about conditional probability\par
and what we would like to discuss now is independence.\par
So intuitively speaking, we want to set two events\par
E and F independent, which we denote using this symbol here,\par
if the occurrence of one of them does not change\par
the probability of the other occurring.\par
Now a little more formally, we would like to say\par
that E and F are independent if the probability\par
of F given E, namely the probability that F happens\par
given that E has happened is the same as P of F,\par
it doesn't change from not knowing that E happened.\par
Now visually, we can interpret it as follows.\par
So first of all, P of F is the fraction of omega that is F.\par
That's our definition of the probability of an event,\par
it's what fraction of times out of all of omega happening,\par
F will happen,\par
and P of F given E is according to our definition\par
that we have in the class video\par
is the probability of the intersection of E of F\par
divided by the probability of E.\par
So looking at the Venn Diagram,\par
P of F is this red area here\par
relative to the area of the whole space\par
and P of F given E\par
is the probability of this intersection here,\par
the probability of this pink space here\par
relative to the area of all of E here.\par
So that's what P of F given E is\par
and now if the events are independent,\par
if P of F is equal to P of F given E,\par
that means that the fraction of time\par
that F happens out of the whole sample space, omega,\par
is the same as the fraction here\par
of the intersection given all of E,\par
so that's visually what independence means for us,\par
the fraction that F is the whole space\par
is the same as the fraction of the intersection out of E.\par
So know that if E happens, the probability\par
that F will also happen is this fraction,\par
and it is the same as the original fraction\par
of F out of all of omega.\par
So that is what independence means for us.\par
Our definition that we have just said\par
said that F and E are independent\par
if P of F is equal to P of F given E\par
which was by definition\par
was P of E in the intersection F\par
divided by P of E.\par
It's a good definition and it conveys our intuition,\par
but there are two small issues with it.\par
One is that it's asymmetric,\par
we want to say that E and F are independent,\par
whereas this definition is not symmetric,\par
it talks about P of F given E,\par
not P of E given F, so that's one issue.\par
A second one is that P of F given E\par
is not defined when P of E is zero\par
because we would be dividing by zero,\par
so it doesn't apply to events which probability is zero.\par
So we want to resolve these two small issues\par
and formally we'll say that E and F are independent\par
if P of E intersection F is P of E times P of F\par
so it's essentially the same definition as we had,\par
it's just that we move P of E to the numerator here\par
so we get the P of E times F\par
is equal P of E intersection F\par
and if that happens we say that E and F\par
are statistically independent or independent.\par
This you can easily see that it applies\par
when the probability of E or the probability of F is zero.\par
In fact, it will say that if the probability\par
of E or F is zero, then they are independent\par
which makes sense because for example,\par
if E has zero probability,\par
that means that it will never happen\par
and I if told you that F happened,\par
then still E will not happen\par
because it never happens,\par
so the probability of E doesn't change.\par
It was zero and it will remain zero.\par
And likewise if P of F is zero,\par
so it applies when the probabilities are zero\par
and also it's symmetric.\par
You can see that this definition is symmetric\par
in E and F so if F is independent of E,\par
then E is independent of F\par
and that's the way that you would like it to be.\par
And it also applies the earlier definition\par
because if this is true\par
and P of E is non-zero,\par
then you can just normalize by P of E\par
and you'll get the original definition.\par
It's just slightly more general.\par
So let's consider dependent\par
and independent events for a die.\par
So we'll look at three events.\par
First, that the number we get is a prime\par
and that means we got a value of two, three, and five.\par
Happens probability three over six which is one half,\par
or the event where the value we get is odd,\par
namely one, three, five.\par
Again, the probability one half.\par
And the third event is that the number we got is a square,\par
namely one or four and that happens probability six,\par
which is one third.\par
We would like to see which of these events\par
are dependent and which of the pairs are independent.\par
So to do that, we need to consider\par
the probability of the intersection\par
and the product of the probabilities\par
so let's first look at prime and odd.\par
So the intersection of prime and odd\par
is the set three and five,\par
those are the only numbers that are both prime and odd\par
between one and six and their probability\par
is two over six, which is one third.\par
So the probability of the intersection\par
of prime and odd is one third.\par
On the other hand,\par
the product of the probabilities of prime and odd.\par
Well, prime has probability one half\par
because their are three numbers\par
and odd has has probability one half because again,\par
there are three numbers so the product\par
for those probabilities is going to be\par
one half times one half, which is a quarter\par
and because one quarter is not equal to one third,\par
these two events are dependent.\par
Similarly, if we look at prime and square,\par
then their intersection is the empty set,\par
and their probability is therefore zero.\par
Not empty set, but zero.\par
On the other hand, the product of the probabilities\par
is one half times one third, which is one sixth,\par
so one sixth is different from zero\par
so these two events are independent\par
and if we look at the last pair, odd and square,\par
then their intersection is one\par
because the only number between one and six\par
that is both odd and a perfect square is one,\par
so the probability of the intersection\par
is therefore one sixth,\par
while if we look at the product of the probabilities,\par
the probability of odd is one half\par
and the probability of a square is one third,\par
the product is one sixth and that tells us\par
that these two probabilities,\par
the probability of the intersection\par
and the product of probabilities are the same\par
and therefore odd and square are independent.\par
Now that doesn't mean that odd is somehow related\par
to square or not, it just means that given\par
the probabilities we give to odds and square,\par
if I told you that the outcome is odd,\par
it will not change your probability\par
that the value is a square,\par
it's still going to be one third.\par
And if I told you that the value was square,\par
namely one of four, it is not going to change\par
your estimate of the probability that it is odd,\par
it was half before because it was one, three, or five\par
out of six values and now we know that it's one of four\par
because the square and the probability it's odd\par
is again, one half.\par
Finally, let's look at one more example, coins.\par
Let's look again, three events.\par
First of all, H one, the first coins is heads.\par
Namely get get H heads and then something else.\par
That happens probability one half.\par
Second event is H two, namely that the second coin is heads.\par
And the other two we don't care.\par
That again, happens probability one half.\par
And the third event is that we get exactly\par
two heads in a row, namely we either get\par
H H tails, or tails H H\par
and that happens probability two over eight,\par
which is a quarter.\par
And now we want to see which of these three events\par
are dependent or independent,\par
so if we look at H one intersection H two, that's the event\par
that both the first and second coin are heads.\par
That happens probability one quarter\par
and if we look at the product of H one and H two,\par
the probabilities are half times half which is a quarter,\par
so we get that the probability of the intersection\par
is the product of the probabilities\par
and therefore the events are independent.\par
If we look at H two intersection with H H,\par
with two heads in a row,\par
that's exactly the event that we get\par
H heads tails or tails heads heads,\par
so the probability of that event is a quarter\par
and we see that the product of the probability\par
is H two has probability one half\par
and two Hs in a row is a quarter,\par
so the product is one eighth, so these are dependent.\par
Namely, if I told you that H two happens,\par
that changes your estimate\par
about whether you'll get two heads in a row\par
because before the probability\par
of H heads was one quarter and now\par
it's going to be one half as you can see.\par
And finally, let's look at H one,\par
namely the first is heads and then HH.\par
The intersection of these two events\par
is just heads heads tails because we need to have\par
H the first time and then two heads in a row exactly,\par
so it's H H tails.\par
That probability is one eighth,\par
it's one outcome out of eight\par
and if we look at the probability of H one\par
of the first heads which is half\par
times the probability of two heads in a row,\par
which is one quarter,\par
we get one eighth and so these values are equal\par
and therefore these two events are independent.\par
So what we can see is that these events\par
to be dependent or independent\par
is a statistical phenomenon.\par
We're just looking at the probabilities\par
and seeing whether the probability change or not\par
and that's our measure of when\par
probabilities are dependent or independent.\par
With that, we're going to finish this slide\par
and we talked about independence\par
and next time we'll talk about base rule.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
Of 10 students in a classroom, 4 are taking only history, 3 are taking only math, and 3 are taking both history and math. If you select a student uniformly at random, the events of the student taking history and the student taking math are:\par
\par
\tab\par
Independent\par
\par
\tab\par
Dependent\par
}
 