{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello and welcome back.\par
In the previous lectures,\par
we talked about parameter estimation,\par
and we tried to do our best to find the value of parameter.\par
And now what we're going to do is maybe try\par
to not do our best to find a particular variable\par
for the parameter,\par
but try to have a little more confident\par
about what the value of the parameter roughly is, okay?\par
So that's what we're going to discuss.\par
We're going to come up with an interval\par
where we're pretty confident that with,\par
the parameter lies between, somewhere between it, okay?\par
So let's just go over this a little more precisely.\par
So we want to move from estimating specific\par
one value of the interval,\par
of the parameter,\par
that you call a point estimate,\par
to estimating an interval that the parameter lies in, okay?\par
So remember that we have a distribution or a population\par
and we want to estimate the parameter of this distribution\par
or the population.\par
And what we have done before was that we came up with\par
what's called a point estimate.\par
Namely, for example,\par
we estimated the mean to be 3.14,\par
or we estimated that probability that a coin comes up heads,\par
the probability that it's heads,\par
to be 0.48.\par
And there's something really nice about this,\par
and that is that this estimate is precise.\par
But there's something not so nice about it,\par
and that this estimate is certainly wrong.\par
You can almost guarantee that the mean that we estimated\par
is not exactly 3.14\par
and the probability's not exactly 0.48.\par
So once we do that,\par
we don't know exactly what we mean.\par
We give a value\par
and we don't know exactly what it means, okay?\par
And it's, you know,\par
it's kind of sad,\par
because the value that we give is always wrong\par
and we have no confidence about it.\par
We don't know how confident we are that this is the value.\par
In fact, we know it's wrong.\par
Or are we near it,\par
and so on and so on.\par
So what we want to do in this lecture\par
is we want to talk about confidence interval,\par
which I'm going to kind of marry\par
or put together these two issues.\par
One is we want to be precise\par
but maybe not completely precise,\par
and then we want to do something\par
that is going to be fairly accurate.\par
We won't give a precise value,\par
but it's a range that we have some confidence about, okay?\par
So what we want to do is reduce the precision,\par
and at the same time,\par
we want to increase the confidence\par
of the answer that we have.\par
So the answer we'll come up with\par
will look like something like,\par
with 95% confidence,\par
which you can think of as probability if you want,\par
the mean, mu,\par
the parameter of distribution,\par
falls in this interval,\par
not 3.14,\par
but somewhere in between 3.1 and 3.18, okay?\par
So this is the kind of result that we want to say it.\par
So we give a range,\par
and for the range,\par
we give some confidence,\par
which again you can think of as being probability,\par
that the mean falls within this range, right?\par
So in order to understand it,\par
let's go back to basics,\par
back to normal,\par
and remember that the central limit theorem says\par
that if you take averages of anything, essentially,\par
it's going to be roughly normally distributed.\par
And this will provide us the intuition\par
to what we're going to do.\par
In fact, this intuition is so strong\par
that it's almost everything that we're gonna do.\par
If you understand that, we'll be fine.\par
Okay, so just to remind ourself\par
about the central limit theorem again.\par
So we have a sequence of n random variables\par
that are independent,\par
and they're distributed essentially\par
according to any distribution with some mean mu\par
and standard deviation sigma\par
that we don't need to know.\par
But whatever they are,\par
if we define the sample mean\par
to be the sum of the Xis,\par
and we normalize by n,\par
this is the sample mean.\par
And we can then define Zn to be\par
we take the n samples that we have\par
and we kind of normalize it a little bit.\par
So how do we normalize?\par
To do two things.\par
First of all,\par
we subtract n mu,\par
so we are subtracting the expected value of the sum,\par
which is n times mu.\par
So this difference will have zero mean.\par
And then it will still have some,\par
it will still have a standard deviation.\par
We want to normalize standard deviation,\par
and to do that,\par
we normalize by sigma times square root of n.\par
We explained it before and we'll explain it again,\par
but that's what we did,\par
just to remind ourselves.\par
And once we do that,\par
then the central limit theorem tell us\par
that for sufficiently large n,\par
when there's sufficiently large n,\par
and we say typically,\par
people would say, like, maybe 30,\par
then, or more.\par
Then Zn, this normalized average,\par
is distributed roughly normal with mean zero,\par
because we subtracted the mean here,\par
and standard deviation one,\par
because we normalized Zn\par
by sigma times the square root of n.\par
Again, we'll see this coming, okay?\par
And so in other words,\par
Zn is distributed roughly\par
like a standard normal distribution.\par
So it's roughly,\par
and this is a standard normal distribution, okay?\par
Right, okay, so with that,\par
what we want to do first is do something fairly simple,\par
which is try to predict the standard normal random variable.\par
So we have a standard normal variable,\par
namely Z distributed normal\par
with mean zero and sigma one or variance one,\par
which you can write also as normal (0,1) like that.\par
And we want to just do something very simple.\par
We want to predict the value of Z, okay?\par
So if someone tells you I have a random variable.\par
It is normal, mean zero,\par
standard deviation one.\par
I'm going to take,\par
experiment, take one value.\par
What is this value going to be?\par
What is the value of Z going to be?\par
So if you want to give an estimate for just one value,\par
if you want to choose, like, a single value,\par
then you most likely will say that Z is zero.\par
Why?\par
Because if you look at this distribution,\par
the highest probability is for the value zero.\par
So that's one reason,\par
that zero has the highest probability.\par
Also this is an unbiased estimate, right?\par
Because if we look at the value of Z,\par
then the expected value is zero,\par
so this is unbiased.\par
And if you want to minimize the means for error,\par
it's also the right thing to do, okay?\par
But this is pretty much like estimating\par
the mean of a distribution,\par
which in this case we estimate to zero,\par
and consequently suffers from the same drawbacks, okay?\par
So on the one hand, it's very precise,\par
just like before.\par
We said that zero, that's really good.\par
On the other hand, it's certainly wrong, okay?\par
We'll never be correct\par
because the probability that Z will get a value of zero\par
is exactly zero, okay?\par
So this will never happen, okay?\par
So what we want to do is instead of saying\par
that Z is going to be zero,\par
we want to say that Z is going to be in some range, okay?\par
So we want to give an interval\par
and say that, for example,\par
between minus a and a,\par
and say that Z is going to be in this interval\par
from minus a to a.\par
And now we know that the probability\par
that Z is between minus a and a,\par
if a is a positive number,\par
then this is going to be bigger than zero,\par
so we have some confidence that,\par
when we give this range from minus a to a,\par
then we'll be right.\par
So in other words,\par
we're not, for example,\par
trying to say that the temperature tomorrow\par
will be exactly, you know,\par
70 degrees,\par
but we're going to say, well,\par
maybe it's going to be between 65 and 75.\par
And then we have some probability of being correct, okay?\par
So the question is exactly what is this probability, okay?\par
So what is the probability that Z falls\par
between minus a and a, okay?\par
So to do that,\par
we just do a little bit of calculation\par
which is going to hopefully serve as a review\par
for estimating probability of Gaussian random variables.\par
So we're going to do that.\par
Like I said, mostly it's going to be a review\par
but solving will be easy.\par
All right, so we want to calculate\par
the probability of an interval,\par
and our random variable Z is distributed normal zero, one.\par
It's a standard normal random variable, okay?\par
So we have some value,\par
so we have, let's say we have some value a.\par
This quantity here shaded in blue is,\par
recall it is denoted by phi of a,\par
capital phi of a.\par
It's the probability that Z\par
is less than or equal to a, okay?\par
So what is the value of phi of a?\par
Phi of a is also the cumulative distribution function,\par
the CDF of this random variable evaluated at a.\par
And we can just calculate it.\par
It's just the interval from minus infinity to a\par
of the probability distribution function here.\par
So it's the interval from minus infinity to a\par
of e to the minus t squared over two\par
divided by the square root of two pi, okay?\par
And so this is this value,\par
and, but remember we're trying to estimate the probability\par
or to calculate the probability of an interval, okay?\par
So if you want to calculate the probability\par
that Z is between minus a and a,\par
this here is the probability\par
that Z is less than of equal to a,\par
but we want the probability Z is between minus a and a.\par
Well, we can write it,\par
so this is what we are trying,\par
what we are looking for.\par
We can write it as the difference between two values, right?\par
This one,\par
the probability that Z is less than or equal to z,\par
minus the probability that Z is less than\par
or equal to minus a.\par
Minus this blue right here, okay?\par
So it's this area minus this one, okay?\par
So let's just write it out.\par
So it's phi of a.\par
That's this value here.\par
Minus phi of minus a.\par
That's the probability that Z is less than minus a, okay?\par
So this is what we're trying to evaluate, okay?\par
Now I'm going to appeal to symmetry,\par
and we said that by symmetry,\par
well, this we just keep as it is,\par
but this one here is the same,\par
this area here on the left\par
is the same as the area to the right by symmetry,\par
because the Gaussian distribution is symmetric.\par
So instead of looking at the probability\par
that Z is less than or equal to minus a,\par
we're going to look at the probability\par
that Z is bigger than or equal to a, okay?\par
And so now we can write what it is,\par
so what it is is phi of a.\par
That stays the same.\par
And, but we're subtracting this probability here\par
that Z is bigger than or equal to a,\par
which is one minus the probability that Z is to the left.\par
One minus this.\par
So it's one minus phi of a, right?\par
This is this right here, okay?\par
So what we have here is baby algebra,\par
so this gives us just two phi a minus one.\par
Two phi of a minus one.\par
So we see that the probability,\par
so phi of a is just the cumulative distribution function\par
of Z as evaluated to a, okay?\par
And we see that the probability\par
that we are within this interval\par
is just twice phi of a minus one.\par
And that's what we just showed here.\par
And we have seen this before, as well,\par
so let's just remember this,\par
two phi of a minus one, okay?\par
So now if we want to calculate this probability,\par
the only thing we need to do is evaluate phi of a, okay?\par
And how do we do it?\par
Again, a review.\par
So how do you calculate phi of a?\par
So again, there's no known formula,\par
so what we do is we use a couple things.\par
One of them is we use what's called the Z table\par
or the standard normal table,\par
which is shown here,\par
and the table entry shows just phi of a,\par
the probability that we are less than or equal to a,\par
what we call here Z.\par
So you can think of a as Z.\par
We're going to use both, in fact, okay?\par
So, for example,\par
if you try to evaluate phi of one,\par
so let's say this value here is zero,\par
and, right here in the center,\par
and you try to calculate the probability\par
that Z is less than or equal to one,\par
then you just look for it in the table.\par
So this is 1.0,\par
and then we'll look at 1.00 here,\par
because we're looking at just one.\par
If you want to look at 1.2,\par
then we'll look at 1.0,\par
but instead of this column,\par
we'll look here,\par
and this is 1.2, right?\par
Sorry, this is 1.02.\par
If we wanted to do 1.2, I apologize, it's here.\par
And if we want to do 1.22,\par
that will be this value here, okay?\par
All right.\par
So what we see here is that phi of one is 0.8413, okay?\par
That's what we got here.\par
Let's also remember this number for, like,\par
(mumbles) okay?\par
And that's one way of doing it.\par
And another way to do it, of course,\par
is using a program,\par
and what we're going to do\par
is we're going to use Python,\par
and we'll just see if Python gives us\par
the same number of 0.8413, okay?\par
So in Python,\par
if you want to calculate phi of x,\par
then what you do is in the scipy.stats module,\par
you're going to import norm\par
and use the norm.cdf function.\par
CDF, of course,\par
is the cumulative distribution function, okay?\par
So if you want to calculate, for example,\par
phi of one,\par
like we did before,\par
then what you do is you import from scipy.stats,\par
you import norm,\par
and then you just call norm.cdf of one,\par
and it will give you not just 0.8413,\par
but actually several more digits, okay?\par
And if you want to calculate phi of two\par
after you've already imported norm,\par
then you just write norm.cdf of two,\par
and it gives you 0.977.\par
You see it will increase.\par
And if you do three,\par
then you'll get this number,\par
0.998, okay?\par
And so,\par
and you can get, of course, any number you want.\par
All right, so now we've seen how to calculate\par
the probability of an interval\par
so that it's two phi of a minus one,\par
and then we see how to calculate phi of a\par
using norm.cdf from here, okay?\par
So this will bring us back to the 68 - 95 - 99.7 rule.\par
So if we want to calculate the probability\par
that Z is between minus a and a,\par
that's, as we said,\par
is going to be two phi of a minus one.\par
We saw that, okay?\par
And now we're going to evaluate it for one,\par
which is one standard deviation, two standard deviation,\par
and three standard deviation.\par
So this is this probability here, okay?\par
And if you calculated for a which is equal to one,\par
then you get two times 08.413 that we had before,\par
minus one.\par
That gives you 68.2%.\par
That's this 68 here.\par
If you evaluated for two standard,\par
for a equals to two,\par
which is two standard deviation,\par
it's two times 0.9772 minus one,\par
which is 0.95 here,\par
which is the 95%.\par
In fact, it's a little more, as we observe,\par
but roughly speaking it's 95%.\par
And for three,\par
a equals to three,\par
or being within three standard deviations,\par
it comes out to 0.9974.\par
Okay, and what that says, again,\par
is that the probability that we're going to be\par
within one standard deviation here is 68%.\par
The probability that we'll be\par
within two standard deviations is 95%,\par
and the probability that we'll be\par
within three standard deviations is 99.7%.\par
Very high.\par
Okay? All right.\par
So what we did so far is someone gave us the interval,\par
minus a to a,\par
and we then found the probability that we'll fall inside.\par
And what we're going to do now is\par
I want to play a little Jeopardy.\par
So instead of someone giving us the interval\par
and we coming up with the probability,\par
someone's gonna give us the probability.\par
So they'll say I want you to be accurate\par
with that probability.\par
And we'll need to come up with the interval.\par
So they'll say I want you to be accurate\par
with probability 95%,\par
and we'll need to come up with an interval\par
that's sufficiently large that probability 95%,\par
we're going to be inside that interval.\par
All right, so,\par
and the reason is because typically what we're given\par
is we're given the desired probability,\par
as we just said, of p,\par
and we want to find some value a\par
such that if probability,\par
this probability that we're given,\par
we're going to be,\par
our Z is going to be inside this, in this a.\par
All right.\par
Okay, cool.\par
So in other words, again,\par
we're given p\par
and we're looking for the a\par
such that this area here is going to be equal to,\par
this is going to be equal to p.\par
All right.\par
So what we saw was that p was,\par
which is the probability that Z is between minus a and a,\par
we saw that that was twice phi of a minus one.\par
We've seen this just a little while ago.\par
And so, and what would,\par
that would tell us is that if you want to find,\par
so we can express phi of a in terms of p.\par
That will give us that phi of a is one plus p over two,\par
all right?\par
So one moves to the left,\par
so it's p plus one,\par
and then divide by two,\par
so it's one plus p over two, okay?\par
And I just want to show you,\par
just because it's a little crucial for us,\par
I just wanted to show you this in another way.\par
So we're looking for a\par
such that the area between minus a and a\par
is equal to p, okay?\par
So if that's the case,\par
then the area outside this,\par
the area here in blue is one minus p, okay?\par
And then by symmetry,\par
this area here is one minus p over two, okay?\par
And we can write,\par
we can write this area here\par
as one minus the area to the left.\par
So this area here is one minus this area, okay?\par
And therefore what we have here on the left\par
is one minus p over two, right?\par
Because this area here is one minus p over two,\par
so this area here is one minus one minus p over two, okay?\par
But a little bit of,\par
a tiny bit of algebra says that one minus one minus p\par
over two is actually equal to one plus p over two, right?\par
'Cause we have half,\par
and then this becomes plus p over two, okay?\par
And, but this area here on the left is just phi of a.\par
So this says that phi of a again\par
is one plus p over two,\par
just the same as here, okay?\par
So either way from before,\par
and then this algebra or here,\par
you see that phi of a is one plus p over two,\par
and what we need, of course,\par
is someone who's going to give us p,\par
and we want to find the interval,\par
so someone's given us p and want to find a.\par
Playing Jeopardy,\par
we're looking at the inverse function,\par
so a is going to be phi inverse\par
of one plus p over two, okay?\par
So this is basic, okay?\par
And so now what we want to show you\par
is how to calculate,\par
how do we calculate phi inverse, okay?\par
So again, you can look at the table,\par
you can look on the right,\par
find the value of a that will give you the p that you want,\par
or the phi of a that you want,\par
or we can use Python.\par
So in Python,\par
we want to implement phi inverse of p.\par
We use it using the function norm,\par
or the method norm.ppf of p,\par
and PPF stands for percent point function.\par
Because we'll be given the value of p,\par
the area to the left or the percent to the left,\par
and we want to find the point,\par
we want to find the point that will give you this value.\par
So we're given the area to the left, and,\par
which is p,\par
and you want to find the value a\par
such that the area to the left of it,\par
to the left of this point is this percentage, okay?\par
So it converts the percentile,\par
the fraction of the distribution that's on the left,\par
to the point which has this fraction on its left, all right?\par
Okay?\par
So, for example,\par
if you wanted to find phi inverse of 0.95,\par
then again, you need to first import scipy,\par
from scipy.stats,\par
we need to import norm,\par
and then we write norm.ppf of 0.95,\par
and that will give us this value 1.644.\par
And if we want to find phi inverse of 0.975,\par
then we again just write norm.ppf of 0.975,\par
and that will tell us that we need to go to 1.96.\par
So namely we need to go two standard deviations to the right\par
of the mean to get this,\par
to get 0.975 of the volume to our left.\par
And the inverse of 0.99 will give us this value.\par
All right?\par
So what the common values of confidence\par
that we're interested will be,\par
the most common one would be 95%,\par
but we're going to show later 90 and 98%,\par
but the most common is 95%.\par
So we're looking for the value,\par
so we're looking for the value a\par
such that the probability that will be\par
between minus a and a,\par
that the standard Z,\par
the standard normal random variable\par
will be between minus a and a,\par
will be 95%.\par
So as, as we saw,\par
is phi inverse of one plus p over two,\par
where p is .95, okay?\par
So we're looking at phi inverse of one plus p over two,\par
in this case is phi inverse of 0.975, right?\par
Because 95,\par
we take the average of .95 and one,\par
take the average,\par
this is .975.\par
We're looking at phi inverse of that.\par
And we saw in the previous slide\par
that when you take the inverse of 0.975\par
you get 1.9599, okay?\par
Which is roughly 1.96, okay?\par
So that tells us that the probability\par
that Z will be between minus 1.96 and plus 1.96\par
is roughly 0.95, okay?\par
So now this should look familiar\par
because this is part of the 68 - 95 - 99.7 rule,\par
because what this says is the probability\par
that Z is between minus 1.96 and plus 1.96 is 0.95.\par
And as we saw before,\par
we said that the probability that Z is\par
within two standard deviations from its mean was 95%.\par
In fact, it was,\par
we said it was a little more.\par
And so it,\par
so what this shows us,\par
if you want 95%,\par
it actually will be 1.96 standard deviation from the mean,\par
not two standard deviations.\par
This is the 95 of the,\par
from this rule, okay?\par
So, and so this, again,\par
is a more precise version of what we said before,\par
which would be the probability that Z\par
is two standard deviations from the mean is 95%.\par
In fact, the probability that Z\par
is at most 1.96 standard deviation is roughly 9.5.\par
Okay, so again we can do it not just for 95%.\par
We can calculate it for any value.\par
So if p,\par
we start with p,\par
the probability that we're interested in,\par
that we want to be,\par
the confidence that we want\par
that our value will be within this range.\par
So this is p.\par
When we first calculate one plus p over two,\par
and then we invert one plus p over two,\par
and that will give us a, okay?\par
So that we just saw is that p is 95%,\par
then one plus p over two is .975,\par
and then the number of standard deviations we need to,\par
of slack we need to give ourselves\par
is 1.96 standard deviations.\par
If we want to do 90%,\par
then one plus p over two is 95.95,\par
and then we invert using, again, norm.ppf,\par
and we see that we need to be\par
within 1.645 standard deviations.\par
And if you want to do 98%,\par
be 98 confident,\par
98% confident,\par
then one plus p over two is 0.99,\par
and then phi inverse of 0.99 is 2.056,\par
which means that we need to choose a\par
to be 20.56.\par
So as you can see,\par
if we want to be more confident\par
that we're inside the interval,\par
we need to go further away.\par
So we need to go,\par
if we want to be 90% sure,\par
we just need to be 1.6 standard deviations away,\par
95% sure we want to go 1.96 standard deviations away,\par
98% sure we need to go a little further,\par
two standard deviations away, okay?\par
So, okay, so this was,\par
what we did here was for standard normal distributions,\par
and general normal distributions are not very different.\par
So if X is distributed normal\par
with a mean mu and variance sigma squared,\par
which you can also again write as normal mu\par
and sigma squared like this with parentheses,\par
then we know that if we define Z\par
to be X minus mu over sigma,\par
so X minus mu makes sure that the mean is zero,\par
and then divided by sigma makes sure\par
that the standard deviation is one,\par
so this is going to be normal zero one,\par
a standard normal distribution.\par
So the probability that X is between mu\par
plus some value a times sigma,\par
so X is distributed with mu and sigma,\par
mean and variance,\par
so the probability that X is between\par
mu minus some value a times sigma\par
and mu plus this value a times sigma,\par
we can subtract mu first,\par
so it's the probability that X minus mu\par
is between a sigma and minus a sigma,\par
and then we can divide by sigma,\par
so it's the probability that X minus mu over sigma\par
is between minus a and a.\par
And X minus mu over sigma,\par
as we said here, is Z.\par
So this is the probability that Z\par
is between minus a and a, okay?\par
And if you don't like this,\par
it's not much math,\par
but if you don't, still don't like it,\par
it's very easy to remember,\par
because what we have here is the probability\par
that X is between,\par
is at most a standard deviation from its mean.\par
So X is between mu minus a sigma\par
and at most mu plus a sigma.\par
So X is at most a standard deviations from its mean mu.\par
And so this is what we have here.\par
And what we have here is the probability that Z\par
is within a standard deviations from its mean.\par
And those two are the same, right?\par
Because we have Gaussian random variables\par
and what determines is how many standard deviations\par
you are away from the mean, okay?\par
So in pictures, this will look,\par
we have X and Z,\par
they are both normal distributions,\par
and this is Z.\par
Its mean is zero.\par
And we ask,\par
and the standard deviation is one.\par
So we're asking to be a standard deviation\par
away from the mean.\par
This is this value here.\par
And on the other hand,\par
if we have X,\par
and X has mean mu and a standard deviation sigma,\par
so it will look like this.\par
And this is X.\par
So now the mean is mu,\par
and now we're asking what's the probability\par
that we're within a standard deviation from its mean,\par
and these two areas should be the same.\par
Maybe they don't quite look this way.\par
Maybe this should be a little more flat,\par
a little more shorter.\par
But these two areas,\par
if we drew it,\par
if we scaled this,\par
if we kind of, like, squished it enough,\par
they would then be the same, all right?\par
Okay, so let's do an example.\par
So let's say that X is distributed normal with mean one\par
and variance four.\par
Then let's say that we are looking for a\par
such that the probability that will be between,\par
that X will be...\par
That X will be within a standard deviations from its mean\par
is going to be 0.95, okay?\par
So what we have here is mu is one\par
and sigma is two, okay?\par
Okay, so we know that if we wanted Z,\par
if we looked at a random,\par
compared to normal, standard normal random variable is Z,\par
then the probability that it will be 1.96 away from zero,\par
1.96 standard deviations away from its mean,\par
is 0.95, which is what we want, okay?\par
And as we saw in the previous slide,\par
that is the probability\par
that X is between mu minus 1.96 sigma\par
and at most 1.96 sigma.\par
Why?\par
Again, because this is the probability that Z,\par
I think we have that region,\par
this is the probability that Z is 1.96 standard deviations\par
away from its mean,\par
and this is the same.\par
This is the probability that X\par
is within 1.96 standard deviations away from the mean mu\par
plus or minus 1.96 sigma.\par
So these probabilities are the same, okay?\par
So all we need to do now\par
is we just need to plug in these values for mu,\par
that we have for mu and sigma.\par
And mu is one and sigma is two,\par
so we get that this is the probability that X\par
is between mu here is one,\par
one minus two times 1.96,\par
which is minus 2.92,\par
and at most mu plus 1.96 sigma,\par
which is at most,\par
mu is one and sigma is two,\par
so one plus,\par
you can think of it roughly as one plus four,\par
which is five,\par
but this is the precise value, okay?\par
So what we see is that if someone gives us p which is .95,\par
then we can say that with probability 95%,\par
X will be between minus 2.92 and 4.92.\par
And this is the idea that we want to implement.\par
Somebody's going to give us some confidence\par
and we'll find some range\par
such that what we're looking for\par
is going to be in this range with that probability, okay?\par
All right.\par
So this brings us back to confidence intervals.\par
So we can apply confidence intervals to any parameters.\par
Any parameter.\par
But the simplest and by far the most common are\par
either the mean mu,\par
trying to estimate the mean of a standard,\par
of a random variable,\par
or what's called a proportion p,\par
which is essentially the same.\par
You have, for example,\par
a coin, a Bernoulli coin,\par
probability p of being heads.\par
We're trying to estimate what is p.\par
Or we have some property,\par
like we were looking at the percentage\par
of people who are going to,\par
that property is a person maybe votes for a certain party,\par
and we're looking for the proportion\par
of the people who vote for this party,\par
and that's the same as p,\par
which is really the same as the mean,\par
because you're looking,\par
if you recall,\par
the mean of a Bernoulli random variable is p.\par
So these two are the same,\par
just different mean,\par
this is more specific.\par
We're looking for a proportion of the population\par
that has probability p with the special case of mu.\par
So these are by far the most popular parameters\par
for which people Look for confidence interval,\par
and that's what we're going to do in this presentation.\par
Okay, so basically we'll be given a sample\par
consisting of n values, X1 up to Xn,\par
that we saw in observations,\par
and we want to find an interval that will contain mu\par
such that with probability,\par
such that with a given probability,\par
we're going,\par
mu is going to be within this interval, okay?\par
And so we want to find,\par
just because I didn't write one,\par
let's say we want to find an interval\par
that with some given probability will contain mu.\par
Will contain the real mean, okay?\par
So first we're going to look at what happens\par
when sigma, the standard deviation, is known,\par
and then in the next lecture,\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Part 2\par
}
 