{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello, and welcome back.\par
In the previous videos, we talked about confidence interval,\par
and in this lecture, we're going to start talking about\par
hypothesis testing.\par
We'll introduce a hypothesis which are just assumptions\par
about parameters.\par
And we'll talk about simple and composite hypotheses.\par
We'll talk about the null and alternative hypothesis.\par
We'll talk about how to test an hypothesis\par
and when do we accept or reject the null hypothesis.\par
Okay, so first a small review leading to a preview.\par
So so far, we talked about parameter estimation,\par
we discussed point estimates that estimated\par
a particular value for a parameter,\par
and we talked about confidence intervals\par
that give us a whole range of possible values,\par
and one could continue that way,\par
but it would nget a little repetitive.\par
So instead, we want to move to a new topic,\par
and we're going to become the Mythbusters,\par
except that we want to get grade credit\par
so we'll keep the mythbusting a little secret,\par
and instead we'll call it hypothesis testing,\par
but really, they are the same.\par
Okay, so what are hypotheses?\par
Hypotheses are assumptions or statements about parameters\par
and as always, the parameters could be a parameter\par
for distribution.\par
For example, you have a Gaussian distribution\par
and you make an assumption about the mean\par
or the standard deviation or about population.\par
You have a collection of individuals\par
and you make some assumptions about the average\par
or the maximum and so on.\par
So examples could be that you have a coin\par
and the coin is biased, so the probability of heads\par
is not exactly half.\par
That's a hypothesis.\par
Or we would like to say that for entry-level classes,\par
the average grade that we give is 3.0.\par
So maybe someone could make this the hypothesis,\par
that the average student GPA is less than 3.0.\par
Or Amazon might say that their average delivery time\par
is two days and you might hypothesize that it's actually\par
more than two days.\par
Or do people tweet more on a weekend\par
or that men play more video games than women on average.\par
So all these hypotheses, some assumptions about\par
either distribution or population\par
and these assumptions could be either true or not true.\par
All right, so the different types of hypotheses.\par
The simplest is called a simple hypothesis\par
and that's the parameter takes a single specific value.\par
For example, we may hypothesize that the mean\par
is exactly 4.5.\par
So that's a simple hypothesis.\par
It hypothesizes that the mean is exactly 4.5\par
or that the standard deviation is exactly 2.4.\par
So that's a simple hypothesis.\par
You can also have a composite hypothesis\par
and those are hypotheses where the parameter can take\par
one of several values.\par
So for example, it could be that the mean is either 4.5\par
or 6.3, one of these two, or it could be\par
that the standard deviation is at least 4.5\par
and at most 6.3.\par
So that's a composite hypothesis\par
about the standard deviation.\par
Okay, or the mean is bigger than the standard deviation.\par
Okay, now for composite hypotheses,\par
you could have one-sided hypotheses,\par
and those are things like that the mean is less than\par
or equal to 2.3 or that the mean is bigger than 4.5\par
or there's a one-sided.\par
It says that the parameter is on one side of some value,\par
a given value, or it could be two-sided.\par
For example, the mean is less than 2.3\par
or bigger than 4.5 or that the mean is less than 2.3\par
or bigger than 2.3, and of course, this we can write\par
as just as the mean is not equal to 2.3.\par
So these are two-sided hypotheses.\par
Okay, and sometimes you have a hypothesis\par
that you believe is true.\par
So often, there's an assumption you believe is true.\par
For example, you might believe that this planet is round.\par
And so we call such an hypothesis the null hypothesis\par
or the status quo hypothesis and we denote it by H0.\par
The complementary view, for example, that the earth is flat\par
or that the earth is shaped like a polygon\par
or that it's a huge spinner,\par
those are called alternative hypotheses\par
or research hypotheses, and we denote them by H1 or HA\par
for alternative.\par
And often the alternative hypothesis is the complement\par
or a one-sided complement of the null hypothesis\par
but that's not always the case.\par
Okay, so let's see a few examples,\par
and let's start with null hypotheses that are simple,\par
namely, that we assume it's a particular value.\par
So if we take a coin, we could have a null hypothesis\par
that says that the coin is unbiased,\par
namely, the probability of heads is exactly 0.5.\par
So that's a simple hypothesis.\par
It assumes a single value for the probability of heads.\par
And the alternative hypothesis could be,\par
it could say the coin is biased,\par
namely, the probability of heads is not 0.5.\par
So it is a complement of this hypothesis.\par
Okay, and this is a two-sided alternative hypothesis.\par
It says the probability is bigger than 0.5 or less than 0.5\par
from not the same.\par
Or we could have a one-sided version\par
that says that heads are more likely,\par
namely the probability of heads is strictly bigger than 0.5.\par
Okay, so that's another possible alternative.\par
Okay, and this is a one-sided alternative.\par
Some people take the alternative hypothesis\par
to be always the complement of the null\par
but we're not going to be so strict.\par
Okay, here's another more complex example.\par
Let's look at gender equality as applied to average GPA.\par
So we could take the average GPA of women\par
and relate it to the average GPA of guys, okay?\par
So the null hypothesis could say that\par
that men and women have the same average GPA.\par
And the alternative would say that they have different\par
average GPAs, and this would be two-sided\par
and saying that men have either a lower average,\par
or it could be one-sided that said that men's average GPA\par
is higher that women's average GPA.\par
That's a one-sided alternative hypothesis.\par
All right, and I just want to observe\par
that this is not exactly a simple null hypothesis\par
because this hypothesis is more complex.\par
It says that the average GPA of men and of women\par
are the same, so it's a collection of x comma x,\par
like 3.3 and 3.3 and so on.\par
But I just wanted to give you this as an example.\par
We could also have a one-sided null hypothesis.\par
For example, if we look at smartphones\par
and look at iPhones versus Android phones.\par
So a null hypothesis could say that at least 60%\par
of the population uses iOS, uses iPhones.\par
So this is a one-sided null hypothesis.\par
It says that the percentage of people who use iPhones\par
is at least 60% and the alternative hypothesis in this case\par
would be that, it's just the complement,\par
that at most 60% of phone users use iOS or use iPhones.\par
And if you want something a little more complicated,\par
we could look at self checkout versus cashier checkout\par
and null hypothesis can say that\par
self checkout is faster, so it's faster to check out\par
by yourself than to use a cashier,\par
and the alternative could say that self checkout,\par
for example, is slower.\par
And again this is not exactly what we call one-sided\par
because here we have two values.\par
One is the average time it takes to check out,\par
self checkout, which is x,\par
let's say and the average time for cashier checkout,\par
which is y, so this is the collection of all x, y,\par
such that x is less than y, for example.\par
Okay, so now once we give an hypothesis\par
you would like to test, whether it's true or not,\par
and the question is how to do it.\par
So what you do, as you might expect,\par
is you design an experiment and you gather data\par
and then you check whether the data is consistent\par
with the null hypothesis, and if it is consistent,\par
then you do not reject the null hypothesis.\par
You say the null hypothesis is true.\par
And if it's inconsistent, if the data is inconsistent\par
with the null hypothesis,\par
then you reject the null hypothesis\par
in favor of the alternative.\par
Or an equivalent way of saying it is\par
you check if there's strong evidence\par
for the alternative hypothesis\par
and if there is a strong evidence\par
for the alternative hypothesis,\par
then you reject the null in favor of this alternative.\par
If there's not a strong evidence for the alternative,\par
then you do not the null.\par
And I'm going to give two analogies for these tests\par
just to get a little more intuition,\par
and you can see that what we're doing here\par
is we're being rather conservative.\par
In order to reject the null, we need to have,\par
we need to have, that the data is inconsistent\par
with the null hypothesis.\par
We need to have very strong evidence\par
for the alternative.\par
If the data is somewhat consistent with the null\par
or if it is not strong evidence,\par
then we are not going to reject the null hypothesis.\par
And I want to give two analogies for that.\par
Okay, first of all is testing,\par
like a hypothesis testing versus trials.\par
So in a hypothesis test, as we just said,\par
if we have strong evidence for the alternative hypothesis,\par
then we reject the null in terms of the alternative.\par
If we don't have strong evidence for the alternative,\par
then we're being conservative.\par
We just do not reject the null.\par
We just keep it.\par
And this is also done in the judicial system.\par
So if you have a trial and then if you find very strong\par
incriminating evidence,\par
then you'll find the defendant guilty.\par
And if you don't find strong incriminating evidence,\par
then you find non-guilty.\par
So we can see here that innocence plays the role\par
of the null hypothesis\par
'cause we are, we presume, in a sense\par
unless we're given strong evidence to the contrary,\par
we assume, we're going to presume\par
that the defendant is innocent, okay?\par
So we reject only with strong evidence.\par
In other words, we assume that the defendant is innocent\par
until proven guilty.\par
So that's one analogy.\par
And the second one is the one we started with,\par
hypotheses versus myths.\par
So in a hypothesis test again,\par
if we have strong evidence for the alternative,\par
then we'll reject the null in favor of the alternative,\par
and if we don't have strong evidence for the alternative,\par
then we will not reject the null,\par
and it's the same in mythbusting\par
because if there's strong evidence for the myth,\par
then we'll accept it, and if there isn't strong evidence,\par
we'll keep the default, the status quo.\par
And how do we check a myth?\par
Of course, what we do is we come up with a test\par
and that's what we're going to do here as well.\par
So let's be slightly more precise about that.\par
So how do you test a hypothesis?\par
You design an experiment and we call it a test.\par
And then you define a numerical outcome\par
for this experiment.\par
It's not something that is vague,\par
where it's some number.\par
We'll call it T for the value of the test.\par
And this is called a test statistic\par
and hopefully tests something to do with the hypothesis\par
obviously.\par
All right, and then what we can do is\par
we look at the null hypothesis\par
and we determine the distribution of the test statistic\par
under the null hypothesis.\par
And namely, we assume that the null hypothesis H0 holds\par
and then we find the probability that the test statistic\par
will take any given value.\par
Of course, we're gonna do a couple examples very shortly.\par
Now we're going to observe the data\par
and then we calculate the value T of the test statistic\par
for this particular data\par
and see what the value of this test statistic is\par
for this data.\par
And then we can calculate the probability\par
under the null hypothesis of the statistic\par
that we will observe, little t.\par
And there are couple possibilities.\par
If this probability is large,\par
namely, if the null hypothesis gives the specific outcome\par
a large probability, then we say that the data is consistent\par
with the null hypothesis,\par
and we do not reject the null hypothesis.\par
So we accept the null hypothesis, H0.\par
On the other hand, if the probability\par
that the null hypothesis, the observation is small,\par
and furthermore, it's t is towards the null hypothesis,\par
as we're going to see, then we'll say that\par
the null hypothesis is inconsistent with the data\par
and we reject the null hypothesis\par
in terms of the alternative.\par
And what we're going to do is we're going to give\par
two examples and now intuitive examples,\par
and then in the next lecture,\par
we're going to define things more fuller.\par
So two simple examples.\par
So first let's look at a coin bias,\par
and let's look at a one-sided alternative hypothesis.\par
So the null hypothesis is very natural.\par
It will say that the coin is unbiased,\par
namely, that the probability of heads is exactly half.\par
And this is, as we know, this is a simple null.\par
It says that the probability of heads is exactly one value,\par
which is 0.5.\par
Now the alternative hypothesis.\par
We're going to say that the coin is biased towards heads,\par
namely, the probability of heads is bigger than 0.5.\par
So you can see this is a one-sided alternative hypothesis.\par
All right.\par
Now if you want to test this,\par
then one thing we could do is we can roll this coin\par
20 times, flip it 20 times,\par
and we can define a test statistic\par
and a very natural outcome here is going to be the number\par
of heads.\par
We flipped a coin 20 times.\par
We see how many heads we got.\par
That's denoted by X.\par
So that's the statistic for this test.\par
It's a numerical value,\par
related clearly to whether the probability of heads\par
is 0.5 or bigger than 0.5.\par
And what we can do is we can draw the distribution of X\par
under H0, under the null hypothesis,\par
that the coin is unbiased.\par
So if the coin is unbiased,\par
then this going to be the distribution\par
of the number of heads.\par
It's going to go from zero to 20\par
and it's distributed binomially.\par
So intuitively speaking, if the coin is unbiased,\par
if the probability of heads is indeed half,\par
we expect the number of heads to be roughly 10, right?\par
Because we flipped a coin 20 times,\par
so we expect it to be roughly 10.\par
If it's going to be much larger than 10,\par
then we might suspect that the coin is biased.\par
So for example, we might say intuitively\par
that if x is bigger than or equal to 16,\par
if you've got at least 16 heads here,\par
then the probability of seeing that,\par
if the coin is unbiased, is very small.\par
So this is unlikely under the null hypothesis\par
and it's more likely under the alternative hypothesis\par
and therefore we might reject the null hypothesis\par
in terms of the alternative hypothesis.\par
On the other hand, so in this region,\par
maybe 16 or more heads, we're going to reject and say\par
that we'll reject the null hypothesis\par
and accept the alternative hypothesis,\par
which is the probability of heads is bigger than 0.5.\par
On the other hand, if the number of heads\par
we get is less than 15, so it's the complement of that,\par
then maybe we will not reject the null.\par
So this is this range here.\par
In this range, we're going to accept the null hypothesis.\par
Notice that because our alternative is one-sided,\par
namely, the probability of heads is bigger than 0.5,\par
even if we get these values, again, the probability\par
of getting those is very small using the null hypothesis\par
but we're not going to reject it for the alternative\par
because the probability of getting that\par
given the probability of heads is bigger than 0.5\par
is even smaller.\par
So anything let's say less than 15, we accept,\par
and everything bigger than 16,\par
we reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative.\par
And let's look at the related and second example related.\par
So again the coin bias, but now two-sided alternative.\par
So again, the null hypothesis is that the coin is unbiased,\par
namely, the probability of heads is 0.5,\par
and again it's a simple null.\par
Now the alternative is going to be just the complement,\par
the coin is biased and that the probability of heads\par
is not equal to 0.5,\par
so that's a two-sided alternative.\par
Again, a test could be the same.\par
Flip the coin 20 times and the statistics again\par
could be the same, number of heads, which we denote by X,\par
and it has the same distribution as we saw before.\par
But now, again intuitively, we might say that if\par
the number of heads we got is between five and 15,\par
in this range, then we do not reject the null hypothesis\par
and we accept it, say that the coin is unbiased\par
in this region, but otherwise,\par
namely, if the number of heads is either\par
at most four or at least 16,\par
then we reject the null hypothesis\par
in favor of the alternative\par
that says that the coin is biased,\par
either the probability of heads is bigger than half\par
or less than half, but not exactly half.\par
So all right.\par
So just to summarize, we said that hypotheses\par
are assumptions about parameters.\par
We discussed simple and composite hypotheses,\par
discussed the null and alternative hypothesis,\par
and we discussed what a test is,\par
and when to accept and reject a null,\par
at least intuitively.\par
And next time, we're going to formalize\par
what it means to come up with a test,\par
and we're also going to talk about p values.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
}
 