{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - [Presenter] Hello and welcome back.\par
In the last lecture, we introduced hypothesis testing\par
and now we would like to discuss it a little more formally.\par
We're going to be a little more systematic\par
and a little more precise.\par
We'll discuss the significance level\par
which limits the amount of error that we can make,\par
and then we'll talk about two ways\par
of performing the hypothesis test.\par
One using critical values, and the other one using P values.\par
And we'll also introduce one and two-sided alternatives\par
and analyze them.\par
So now that we found a problem or an issue\par
that we really like, then the only thing left to do\par
is to put a number on it.\par
And as we'll see, the number of choice is going to be 5%.\par
So let's remind ourselves of the coin bias question\par
that we saw in the previous lecture.\par
So we had a coin.\par
The null hypothesis said that the coin is unbiased,\par
namely the probability of heads is exactly 50%.\par
And alternative said the coin is biased\par
in the sense that heads are more likely.\par
So the probability of heads is strictly more than 50%.\par
And to test which hypothesis is true,\par
we collected the data which was doing coin flips\par
and our test statistic was the number of heads\par
which we call X.\par
So X is clearly going to be a number between zero and 20.\par
Now, we'll be mostly concerned with what's called\par
a type-1 error, which is that the coin is unbiased,\par
namely the null hypothesis is true.\par
And yet even though the null hypothesis is hold,\par
we declare the alternative,\par
namely we believe that heads are more likely.\par
So making mistake, it's called type-1 error.\par
Now under the null hypothesis, the number of heads X\par
is distributed binomial with probability 50%\par
because that's the null hypothesis\par
and N which is 20, that's the number of coin flips.\par
And if we plot the probability under the null hypothesis\par
of getting X heads, then it follows this plot here\par
which is, again, the plot of the binomial distribution\par
with P 50% and N equals 20,\par
it's the number between zero and 20 with mean 10\par
and as you can see, this is also the peak.\par
Now what we did previously is we eyeball this picture\par
and we said, oh, maybe if we get 16 or more heads,\par
then the alternative hypothesis is more likely,\par
that the probability of heads is bigger than 50% accepted.\par
And if we get fewer than 14 heads, then maybe we will say\par
that we're going to keep the null hypothesis.\par
And what we're going to do today is\par
do it a little more systematically.\par
So let's start with some nomenclature.\par
And, of course, nomenclature is just a complicated word\par
for terminology, but it's very apropos in this slide\par
because we're now going to discuss complicated terminology.\par
And, of course, apropos is just a complicated word\par
for appropriate.\par
So when we decide that the alternative hypothesis is true,\par
then people usually say something like\par
they will reject the null hypothesis\par
in favor of the alternative hypothesis\par
or that we rejected the null hypothesis.\par
But a US vice president once famely said,\par
that we have more than our share of nattering nabobs\par
of negativism, so we're going to use a word\par
that's a little more positive and little more direct\par
and we'll just say that we accept\par
the alternative hypothesis.\par
And when we want to accept the null hypothesis,\par
then people usually say,\par
we do not reject the null hypothesis\par
or the data is not significant\par
or that the null hypothesis is possible.\par
And they don't say we accept the null hypothesis.\par
Typically, they will not say that.\par
And so the question is why?\par
Why all this verbal gymnastics?\par
So one observation is that the test is asymmetrical.\par
We are really trying to avoid the case\par
where the term null hypothesis is true\par
and we declare the alternative.\par
So there's a little bit of asymmetry there,\par
but that doesn't explain why we have this\par
complete kind of terminologies to say that.\par
Let's go back to our example where we have 20 coin flips\par
and we observed 12 hits.\par
The question is in that case, are we accepting\par
the null hypothesis even though maybe our results said\par
that in this case, we opt for the null hypothesis,\par
but we are accepting it?\par
And maybe not because what for example\par
if the probability of heads was 60%?\par
So we're not in the null hypothesis,\par
we're in the alternative hypothesis.\par
But if you have 20 coin flips with 60% of heads,\par
then you expect to see 12 heads.\par
So this is actually a very reasonable answer\par
when the probability of heads is 60%\par
maybe the alternative is true.\par
And similarly if the probability of heads was 55%,\par
then maybe we'll not expect to see 12,\par
but we'll get to see roughly that number.\par
So both of these better explain 12 heads\par
than the null hypothesis.\par
So we don't say that we accept the null hypothesis.\par
What happens is that we don't know\par
that the null hypothesis is true,\par
in fact, there may be another number\par
for probability of heads that is better explained.\par
But what happens is that we just don't have enough data\par
to reject the null hypothesis.\par
So what we're going to do in this case\par
is we're gonna say that we retain the null hypothesis.\par
We're not saying we accept it,\par
that's true, but we keep it as a plausible explanation.\par
So if you want, I can say that we reluctantly retained\par
the null hypothesis.\par
So now, as we said, we want to get a little more formal\par
and more precise.\par
And remember that we're being very conservative\par
and we want to reject the null\par
or the status quo hypothesis, H naught,\par
only if we have very strong evidence for the alternative HA.\par
So to make it more precise formulation,\par
then we are given what's called the significance level\par
which is called alpha,\par
which is typically going to be a very small number\par
like 5% or 1%.\par
Very tiny.\par
And what we want to make sure is that\par
if the null hypothesis HO is true,\par
then we accept the alternative.\par
We claim the opposite of that.\par
We accept the alternative with probability\par
which is most of this alpha that is giving us\par
which is typically a very tiny number like 5% or 1%.\par
In other words, we want to show that\par
under the null hypothesis,\par
if the null hypothesis is true,\par
then the probability of accepting the alternative\par
is at most alpha.\par
And, as we said, this is called a type-1 error\par
when the null hypothesis is true\par
what we decided from the alternative.\par
So we wanna make it less than alpha.\par
And because alpha is very small like 1%,\par
then all our conservative elephants\par
are going to be quite happy\par
'cause we're making sure that we make a type-1 error\par
with a tiny probability, let's say 1% or 5%.\par
So now we want to see couple of ways of doing it\par
in two methods.\par
And one, we use this critical values,\par
and the other one, we'll P values.\par
So first, critical values.\par
So this is our experiment coin.\par
Null says it's unbiased\par
and alternative says that it's biased towards heads.\par
A 20 samples, X is number of heads.\par
So here, as we said, is the probability distribution\par
under the null hypothesis of the number of heads.\par
We'll always plot it the distribution\par
under the null hypothesis.\par
And if the null hypothesis is true,\par
then as we can see from here, its binomial distribution\par
with probability half in 20 and equals 20,\par
so expect the number of heads to be roughly 10.\par
This mode here which is the expectation.\par
And one thing to observe is that if we're going to accept\par
the alternative hypothesis,\par
for example, when X is equal to 16,\par
so if we get 16 heads, then maybe we might say that\par
their probability of heads is bigger than half.\par
But whatever it is, if we accept,\par
if when X is 16, we accept the alternative hypothesis,\par
then we should also accept the alternative hypothesis\par
with number of heads of 17\par
and we should also accept it when it's 18\par
and even larger number of heads.\par
Or 19 and 20.\par
In other words, there's going to be some threshold.\par
Some first number for which we accept\par
the alternative hypothesis\par
and we'll call it the critical value and noted by X alpha.\par
And so here is the critical value for\par
the null value, let's say 16,\par
and has the property that any number above that,\par
if X is bigger than or equal to this critical value,\par
then we're going to accept as we saw here the alternative.\par
So we accept.\par
And if X is less than this critical value X alpha,\par
then we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
So anything to the left of the critical value we retain,\par
and from that point, from the critical and above,\par
we accept the null hypothesis.\par
And notice that this\par
critical value X alpha\par
is clearly a function of the significance level alpha\par
which is our upper bound on the probability of type-1 error.\par
So if we make the significance level alpha very small,\par
that means that we allow very small probability of error\par
under the null hypothesis\par
and that means that we're going to accept\par
only very, very large number like 20 as the alternative\par
because we want to minimize the probability of accepting\par
the alternative when the null is true.\par
So, of course, the $64,000 question is\par
what is X alpha?\par
What value does it take as a function of alpha?\par
So to see that let's\par
just first remind ourselves what's happening.\par
So we want to find the critical value X alpha.\par
It has the property that if X is less than X alpha,\par
then we retain or we accept if we want the null hypothesis.\par
And if X is at least X alpha,\par
then we accept the alternative.\par
So from that point, null will accept the alternative.\par
Now in alpha is the significance level\par
which, as we said, could be 5 or 1% small number.\par
Now, what we want to make sure is that\par
under the null hypothesis,\par
the probability of falsely accepting the alternative\par
or the type-1 error is less than equal to alpha.\par
This is the definition of false significance levels.\par
So we want to assure that the probability\par
under the null hypothesis of accepting HA,\par
the alternative, is at most alpha.\par
But the probability under the null hypothesis\par
of accepting HA is just the probability\par
under this distribution of falling here.\par
So it's just the probability of those mean points.\par
It's just the sum of these probabilities here.\par
Here, they are like two, four, six.\par
So this probability is just the probability\par
that X is bigger than or equal to the critical value X alpha\par
in this probability under the null hypothesis.\par
That's the probability that will declare the alternative\par
which, in fact, the null is true.\par
So what we need to make sure is simply that\par
under the null hypothesis, the probability that X\par
is bigger than the critical value X alpha is at most alpha.\par
So in other words, we need to make sure\par
that from that point on, the 12 probability\par
sums to at most alpha.\par
All right, now, we can do that easily by taking X alpha\par
the critical value to be very large.\par
For example, making it 20.\par
So the probability that we'll get 20 or more\par
is going to be very small\par
and in particular, will be less than or equal to alpha.\par
But if we do that, then we'll almost never declare H alpha\par
because we only declare H alpha if we get 20\par
and we don't want to do that.\par
We want to make sure that our type-1 error\par
is bounded by alpha, but we also want to make sure\par
that when the alternative is true, we actually declare that.\par
So what we are going to do therefore\par
is look for the smallest X\par
such that under the null hypothesis,\par
the probability that we'll get at least X heads\par
is at most alpha.\par
So we want to find an X such that this probability\par
is at most alpha as we require,\par
but we also want to be sure the smallest one namely\par
one that if we go one below, accurate to 14,\par
then already the sum of probability\par
will be bigger than alpha.\par
So that will make sure because the probability\par
that we are at least X alpha is,\par
this probability is less than or equal to alpha.\par
We make sure that the probability of type error\par
is less than or equal to alpha.\par
And by choosing it so that if you go one below,\par
the probability is bigger in alpha.\par
We'll make sure that this is the smallest such value,\par
so we'll have room for selecting the alternative.\par
All right, so let's do an example\par
and let's start with significance level of 5%.\par
And we want to find the critical value\par
which is denoted by X 5%.\par
And as you remember, is the smallest X\par
such that the probability that the number of heads\par
will be at least that value is it most 5%.\par
So here we're going to write a table\par
with number of heads denoted by X.\par
The probability of getting that many heads\par
which, remember, is shown by this binomial table here.\par
We'll calculate this probability in percentage points\par
because we want to compare it to 5%.\par
And then we'll also calculate the probability that X,\par
the number of heads is at least this value of X\par
which is what we need here.\par
The probability of the sum of different points here.\par
Shown here.\par
All right, now, when number of heads is 20,\par
what is the probability of getting 20 heads\par
under this assumption of unbiased coin is going to be\par
just 20 equals 20 or the number of possible sequences\par
with 20 heads which is one,\par
and in sequence is probability one over two to the 20.\par
In terms of percent, it's 0.0001%\par
and therefore, so the probability that we'll get\par
at least 20 is just this value.\par
Now, what if you look at 19 heads?\par
The probability of observing 19 heads is, first of all,\par
we need to consider the number of sequences\par
with 19 heads which is 19,\par
and each one is probability one over two to the 20,\par
so the percentage is 0.0019.\par
You can almost see that it's roughly right\par
because this number 20 is to 20 is just one.\par
So this is one over two to 20.\par
And here we need to choose 19 or 20 which is one which is 20\par
as one over two to the 20.\par
So this number should be 20 times, about 20 times as large\par
and it is roughly so.\par
So now the probability that X is bigger than or equal 19\par
is the sum of these two values\par
which is going to be 0.002%.\par
And the probability of getting at least 18 heads,\par
you can calculate it.\par
So here's the probability that we're getting exactly\par
18 heads and then we add this to this\par
will give us the sum of all previous three which is 0.02%\par
and then probability of getting 17 or more heads is 0.13%,\par
so not even 1%.\par
The probability of getting 16 or more heads is 0.6%,\par
so almost a percent.\par
The probability of getting 15 or more heads is already 2%,\par
and the probability of getting 14 or more heads,\par
here, 14 or more is roughly 5.8%.\par
Now, you notice that if we choose 15 as our critical value,\par
the probability of getting 15 or more is 2%\par
which is less than or equal to five.\par
So the probability of getting 15 or more heads is roughly 2%\par
which is less than or equal to five which is what we want.\par
And furthermore, 15 is the smallest value\par
such that the probability of getting that many heads or more\par
is at most 5%.\par
If we chose 14, then the probability of getting\par
14 or more heads is already 5.7%.\par
So the smallest value, the smallest X,\par
such that the probability of getting that many heads or more\par
is less than or equal to 5% is 15.\par
So that's 5%.\par
The critical value at 5% significance is 15.\par
And that means that if we get 15 or more heads,\par
we're going to accept the null hypothesis.\par
We say, oh, it's biased towards heads.\par
And if we get 14 of fewer heads\par
and then we return the null hypothesis,\par
we say that we cannot reject the possibility\par
that the coin is unbiased.\par
Now, what if instead of 5%, we look at 1%?\par
So we're looking for the smallest value such that\par
the probability of the green area to its right\par
is at most 1%.\par
Here, it's 5% and we'll redo 1%,\par
so clearly we move to the right somehow.\par
And by how much?\par
We just need to look at this table.\par
So we're looking for the smallest value such that\par
the probability of observing at least that many heads\par
is at most 1%.\par
And this is the smallest such value.\par
So clearly, we're going to choose this value 0.59\par
because the probability of getting 16 or more\par
heads is 0.59.\par
It's less than 1%.\par
And this is the smallest such value\par
because if you go one below,\par
then the probability becomes two\par
which is the given one.\par
So this is going to be 16.\par
But now, there's a little bit of room for improvement\par
and here's why.\par
So the significance level is alpha, let's say 5%,\par
and the critical value we find is X alpha,\par
let's say it's going to be 15.\par
It's similar to what we had before.\par
So this is the critical value\par
and if X number of heads that we observed\par
is less than the critical value, it's here to the left,\par
then we're going to retain the null hypothesis\par
and say it's plausible, it could be in effect.\par
And if the number of heads that we get\par
is bigger than the critical value X alpha\par
and we fold to reach to the right,\par
and then we're going to accept the null hypothesis.\par
But practically speaking, we'll observe one value of X.\par
For example, we'll do the experiment and we get 13 heads.\par
And the question would be whether we're going to retain\par
the null hypothesis or accept the alternative?\par
And you notice that because we only have one value\par
that we need to deal with, then it's very natural to ask\par
whether we can get around or get away without finding\par
the smallest X for which we accept the HA.\par
So here we've looked at 20, 19.\par
We found that the smallest X such that\par
the probability of heads getting as many heads\par
is less than let's say 5%.\par
And the question is we're going to observe this one value,\par
do we really need to find the minimum\par
or maybe we can find a rule that works just for X itself\par
and tell us whether we should accept\par
the alternative hypothesis or retain the null hypothesis.\par
So that's what we want to see, okay?\par
And we'll show that the answer is yes.\par
In fact, you don't need to find the smallest X alpha,\par
you can directly operate with X itself\par
and that method is called P values.\par
So probability values.\par
So again, remember, that we have a critical value\par
for example, X of significant level 5%\par
which was 15 we thought,\par
and that's the smallest X such that the probability that\par
the number of heads will be at least X is at most 5%.\par
That will guarantee that because this probability\par
is at most 5%, we guarantee that the probability\par
that we actually accept the alternative hypothesis\par
is small, it's less than 5%.\par
And as you remember, what we have is,\par
so this here is we have the probability\par
that the number of heads is going to be bigger\par
than X 5% is at most 5%\par
and this is the smallest such value.\par
So then if we go one below,\par
then what is the probability of getting\par
in this case, 14 or more heads is bigger than 5%\par
so it does not qualify as the smallest.\par
And what we said was that if X the number of heads\par
is bigger than this, especially if it falls here,\par
then we accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
And if it's smaller than the threshold,\par
maybe it falls here on the left,\par
then we retain the null hypothesis.\par
And remember, we're trying to find the rule\par
where we don't need to find this critical value.\par
We can just directly operate an observation.\par
Now, you can observe that X is going to be\par
bigger than or equal to the critical value.\par
So if this is the critical value here\par
and X is bigger than or equal to it, if and only if,\par
the probability of observing at least as many excess\par
is at most probably of observing at least as many\par
excesses as this value here.\par
So if we look at the value of X which is here\par
bigger than that,\par
the probability that we'll get at least as many heads\par
is going to be less than the probability if we get\par
at least as many heads as this value here.\par
And similarly, this probability is at most going to be 5%.\par
So if X is bigger than this value, the probability we'll get\par
at least as many heads as this X is going to be less than\par
the probability here which is less than 5%.\par
And conversely, if X is less than the critical value,\par
if X is here, then if and only if,\par
the probability of observing at least as many heads as X,\par
let's say X is 10, is going to be bigger than 5%.\par
Because as we go below this critical value,\par
the probability of all the elements at the right\par
will become bigger than 5%.\par
So what that suggests is that we can define this value here,\par
the probability that the number of heads\par
is bigger than or equal to X to be the P value of X.\par
It's the probability that X of test statistic,\par
in our case, it's the number of heads is at least X.\par
That's the P value of X.\par
And this probability is under the null hypothesis.\par
And what we see is that if this probability\par
is less than or equal to 5%,\par
so if X is such that the probability of being\par
to the right of X is less than or equal to 5%,\par
that means that X is going to be to the right of X 5%.\par
So it means that X is bigger than or equal to\par
the critical value at 5%.\par
And that means by our rule before that we are accepting\par
the alternative hypothesis.\par
And conversely, if the probability that the number of heads\par
is bigger than or equal to X is bigger than 5%.\par
If for example here, the probability is the sum of\par
all the elements to the right of X is bigger than 5%.\par
That means that X is less than 5%,\par
that it's from here to the left.\par
So X is less than the critical value at 5%.\par
This value here of 15.\par
And that means that we're going to reject\par
the alternative hypothesis or retain the null hypothesis.\par
So what we see is whether or not we accept\par
the alternative hypothesis or accept or retain\par
the null hypothesis just depends on the probability that X\par
is the number of heads is bigger than or equal to X\par
which is what we call the P value of X.\par
And we see that this gives us the same regions\par
for accepting the alternative hypothesis\par
and retaining the null hypothesis as before.\par
And it also makes intuitive sense because\par
if the P value of X is small,\par
I mean, the probability of X\par
under the null hypothesis is small,\par
that means that X was probably generated\par
by the alternative hypothesis.\par
So the alternative hypothesis more likely.\par
All right, so let's do an example of using P values\par
to determine whether the null hypothesis\par
or alternative hypothesis fault.\par
So we're going to select significance level of 5%.\par
And as we saw before, in this case,\par
the critical value is 15 and we want to,\par
I'm sorry, is 15,\par
and we want to be able to determine the hypothesis\par
without using this value.\par
So we know that here, if X is bigger than 15,\par
we are going to choose the alternative hypothesis.\par
If X is less than 15, we are going to choose\par
the null hypothesis\par
and we want to get the same classification.\par
The same (mumbles) test\par
without using the critical value.\par
So here, again, we can write the table for 20 heads.\par
We can write the probability that X is\par
bigger than or equal to X and so on.\par
And now, remember these are the P values,\par
and these values are the same as what we had before,\par
the probability that X is bigger than or equal to X,\par
and observe that the P value is less than or equal to 5%.\par
If this P value of X,\par
if X is to the right of the critical value,\par
if X is bigger than or equal to X 5%, if and this is true,\par
if and only if we're going to accept\par
the alternative hypothesis.\par
So in other words, if the P value is at most 5%,\par
then we accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
We don't need to calculate the critical value.\par
And conversely, if the P value is bigger than 5%,\par
the opposite of that, that means,\par
remember, the P value is the probability of being\par
to the right of this one,\par
that means that X is less than the critical value.\par
And if X is less than the critical value,\par
then we want to reject the alternative hypothesis\par
or retain the null hypothesis.\par
So again, we see that the P value,\par
this is the P value, if it's less than or equal to\par
to the significance, which in our case is 5%,\par
we accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
And if the P value is bigger than the significance level,\par
in our case is 5%, if it's bigger than that,\par
then we retain the null hypothesis\par
because we say, oh, under the null hypothesis,\par
the probability of observing X or more is reasonable.\par
Is fairly high.\par
It's bigger than 5%.\par
So using this tool, now we can see which\par
hypothesis we're going to choose.\par
So if the number of heads that we observe is 20,\par
then the P value is 0.01%, it's a very small.\par
The probability of obtaining this value or more\par
using the null hypothesis is always much less than 1%,\par
so we accept the alternative.\par
Likewise here, the probability of observing\par
this value of X to a 19 or more is 0.002%\par
is very small.\par
We say, oh, the null hypothesis does not hold,\par
we accept the alternative in here too and so on and so on.\par
Finally, here, we also accept the alternative because\par
the probability of observing\par
15 heads or more is just 2%.\par
It's less than five that we are allowing ourselves,\par
so accept the alternative.\par
And finally, for 14 heads,\par
the probability of observing 14 or more heads is 5.7%,\par
that's bigger than the 5% that we are allowing\par
so we cannot afford to declare here\par
the alternative hypothesis because we'll be declaring it\par
with probability of bigger than 5%.\par
So here, we retain the, we turn the null hypothesis\par
and this agrees with the decision that we had before.\par
And if on the other hand, we chose\par
our significance level 1%\par
and then we are looking here and we see\par
if the P value is less than 1%,\par
we're going to call for HA alternative.\par
So all these will call for the alternative.\par
And if the P value is bigger than 1% as it is here,\par
then we'll say that\par
we'll accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
So here, we're going to accept the,\par
I'm sorry, so here, the probabilities are bigger than 1%\par
and because the probability is bigger than 1%,\par
we'll retain then the null hypothesis\par
because we say it's likely to have happened\par
so this will be H0.\par
So just to remind ourselves, the P value of X\par
is the probability that X is that the test is at least X.\par
And if this probability is less than or equal to alpha\par
significance level, then we're going to accept\par
the alternative hypothesis because it's less likely\par
that it's generated by null.\par
And if this probability is bigger than alpha,\par
then we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
Now, I want to show you also a couple more examples.\par
One is where we have the opposite alternative\par
probably before.\par
So beforehand, the alternative was that\par
the probability of heads was bigger than 0.5,\par
and here we're going to assume it's less than 0.5\par
and we again do the same 20 coin flips.\par
Number of heads equal X.\par
Significant level alpha, again, could be 5% or 1%.\par
And we want the probability\par
of falsely accepting null alternative\par
when the null is true to be at most alpha.\par
So the critical value X alpha is going to be,\par
in this case, it's going to be the largest X\par
such that the probability that X is less than or equal to X\par
is less than or equal to alpha.\par
So here is the graph\par
and we're looking for critical value X alpha.\par
And remember, the alternative here is\par
that the probability is less than 5%.\par
So here, what we are likely to do is\par
if the number of head is small,\par
then we'll accept the alternative.\par
So looking for the largest value X\par
such that the probability to the left of it\par
is less than or equal to alpha.\par
So this probability is less than or equal to alpha.\par
But if we go one more than this X,\par
this is the largest one.\par
So if we go on above it, then the probability\par
should be bigger than alpha.\par
And once we find this X, then what we're going to do is\par
if the number of heads that we'll observe the test statistic\par
is less than or equal to this critical value,\par
then we're going to accept the alternative hypothesis\par
in all this region\par
and conversely, if the number of heads that we get\par
which is the test statistic is bigger\par
than the critical value that it's here,\par
then we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
So here, we don't have enough evidence to say\par
that there are alternative hold,\par
so we just obtain the null hypothesis.\par
And by choosing\par
this critical value to be such that\par
the probability of X less than or equal to X,\par
the probability to the left is less than or equal to alpha,\par
we assure that the probability of accepting the alternative,\par
the probability here to accept the alternative to the left\par
is exactly less than or equal to alpha\par
which is what we want.\par
And by choosing the largest X possible,\par
and then we also ensure that there are small error,\par
not only under the null hypothesis,\par
but also under the alternative hypothesis.\par
So if we choose alpha which is 5%,\par
then this is symmetric to what we have done before for the,\par
when the alternative was the probability of heads\par
was bigger than five.\par
And so by symmetry, we get that the critical value is five,\par
before it was 15.\par
So by symmetry, it is five.\par
Now, this was using the critical values.\par
If we want to use P values,\par
then, again, significance level of 5%.\par
We can do the same table as before\par
and we write here the probability that the X\par
is less than or equal to,\par
this number of heads is less than or equal to X\par
and this is the P value of X.\par
And so it's this value here.\par
And if this P value is less than or equal to 5%,\par
what that means is that we have X\par
such that the probability that number of heads\par
is to the left of it is less than 5%.\par
Less than this value.\par
This doesn't necessarily mean that this X is to the left\par
of X critical value.\par
So it means that the X is less than or equal to X 5%.\par
And that means by the rule for the critical value,\par
that means that we accept the alternative hypothesis\par
for this X.\par
So we see that if the P value is less than 5%,\par
then accept the alternative hypothesis which makes sense\par
because this is the probability that the null hypothesis\par
will get this under X or less.\par
This probability is less than null tolerance,\par
less than the significant value\par
so we said that, oh, it's not the null hypothesis,\par
but it's the alternative hypothesis.\par
And conversely, if the P value,\par
this probability that X is,\par
that the number of heads is less than or equal to X\par
is bigger than 5%, that means that this X\par
is to the right of this point, X 5% to the five.\par
At someplace here.\par
So X is bigger than X 5%.\par
And in this case, then we should be retaining\par
the null hypothesis.\par
So the P value can tell us whether we should accept\par
the alternative or retain the null.\par
If the P value is less than alpha, less than 5%,\par
and we accept the alternative\par
and the P value is bigger than the critical value 5%,\par
then we just retain the null hypothesis.\par
And so we can do what we wanted which is to decide\par
whether we accept the null hypothesis,\par
accept the alternative or retain the null\par
without calculating itself or just looking at the P value\par
greater to 5%.\par
All right, and so if we do that, then we see that\par
for zero heads on the P value is much less than 5%.\par
So that's unlikely that to get this result\par
from the null hypothesis from an unbiased point,\par
so we accept the alternative.\par
Likewise here, the P value is much less than 5%,\par
so we accept the alternative and so on.\par
All these, we accept the alternatives.\par
The alternative hypothesis up to here, except here.\par
The P value is bigger than 5%\par
so we retain the null hypothesis.\par
And if our significant level was 1%,\par
then what we would do,\par
in all these cases, we would reject the null hypothesis\par
and accept the alternative.\par
And here beforehand, it was less than 5%\par
so we still accepted the alternative,\par
but now because our significant level is 1%,\par
we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
And the last thing I'm going to talk about\par
is two-sided alternative.\par
So here, again, the null hypothesis as before\par
is that the coin is unbiased, 50%,\par
but now, the alternative is that the probability of heads\par
is just not equal to 5%.\par
It could be bigger or smaller.\par
So we have a two-sided alternative\par
and the experiment is the same,\par
and the statistic is the same.\par
And one thing to observe is under the null hypothesis,\par
if the null hypothesis is true and neither coin is unbiased,\par
and because we flipped 20 of them,\par
the mean is going to be 10.\par
So that's the expected number of heads\par
that we'll get under the null hypothesis.\par
It's written here.\par
And so intuitively speaking, under the null hypothesis,\par
we expect to see X, the number of heads close to 10\par
because we flipped the coin 20 times\par
and under the null hypothesis,\par
the probability of heads is 5%.\par
So expect to see close to 10 heads.\par
And under the alternative hypothesis\par
that the probability of heads is not equal to 5%,\par
we expect X to be far from 10.\par
So visually, it should look something like\par
we're looking at the absolute value between X and 10.\par
And if this value is small, I mean, the X is close to 10,\par
then we are going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
So here in the middle,\par
we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
And if X minus 10 is large,\par
then we accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
And the remaining area here to the left and to the right,\par
we're going to accept the null hypothesis\par
because the number of heads we got\par
is very different from 10.\par
So here, we accept the alternative hypothesis,\par
here, we accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
All right, so now, this was the intuition.\par
Now we can do it using the critical value.\par
So again, we have the significance level\par
and we have the mean under the null hypothesis\par
which as we said is 10.\par
And the critical value is going to be the X alpha\par
which is the closest X to 10.\par
The X which is closest to 10 such that the probability\par
that X minus 10 is bigger than or equal to number of heads\par
minus 10 is bigger than or equal to X minus 10.\par
This probability is going to be less than or equal to alpha.\par
So in other words, we're going to look at the probability\par
if for any given X, we're going to look at the probability\par
that the distance between the number of heads we get in 10\par
is bigger than the distance between this X and 10.\par
So here is the probability.\par
For example, if this is X of five, X is 15 it's the same.\par
So looking at the probability that the number of heads\par
minus 10, the distance from number of heads to 10\par
is bigger than or equal to X minus 10.\par
So we're looking at this green area.\par
And we want the probability to be, of this green area\par
to be less than or equal to alpha.\par
And conversely because X is the closest to 10,\par
it means that if we take an X which is one closer,\par
then this will no longer hold.\par
So this probability is going to be bigger than alpha.\par
The probability that\par
what we'll observe will be further away from 10 than X is.\par
Okay, so this is,\par
if we call this value X alpha,\par
so X alpha is that this point here\par
which is this one is to 20 minus X\par
because the difference between X and 10 is the same.\par
It's 10 minus X here, and here is also 10.\par
So what we do is if we observe X heads in our experiment,\par
if X minus 10 is bigger than this X alpha minus 10,\par
that means that we accept the alternative.\par
So in other words, if the number of heads we get\par
is either less than X alpha or bigger than 20 minus X alpha\par
in one of this extreme, then we accept the alternative\par
which says that the probability of heads is really not 50%.\par
And conversely, when we look at X,\par
X is the number of heads that we get minus 10,\par
it's less than X minus 10.\par
So then we have the number of heads that we get\par
in the experiment, and then we retain alpha.\par
Number of heads we get in the experiment is here,\par
closer to 10 than X alpha.\par
In that case, we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
And in this case, the probability under the null hypothesis\par
of type-1 error, namely that we declare the alternative\par
is exactly the probability\par
that will fall here outside.\par
It's the probability that will fall outside of this,\par
in this range and outside of the X alpha,\par
in 20 minus X alpha region.\par
So it's the probability that X minus 10\par
is bigger than X alpha minus 10.\par
And it shows X alpha in such a way\par
that this probability is less than alpha.\par
So this is going to be less than or equal to alpha.\par
This will guarantee that the probability of type-1 error\par
is going to be less than alpha.\par
And we're choosing X alpha to be the closest to 10\par
off all those that satisfy this relationship.\par
And by doing that,\par
we are making sure that we also declare\par
the alternative in this significant proportion.\par
So now we can also do the P values approach.\par
If we look at the P value of X\par
is the probability under the null hypothesis\par
that X is at least as far from 10 as X,\par
namely the probability that X minus 10\par
is bigger than or equal,\par
the number of heads that we get minus 10\par
is bigger than X minus 10, which we can secure.\par
Here, 10 is the mean and the P value of X,\par
if this is X, if this is 20 minus X,\par
the P value of X is going to be the probability\par
that the number of heads that we'll get\par
will be at least as large, at least as far for 10 as X is.\par
So it's here in the green area.\par
so it's the total probability of all these points.\par
And low P value\par
means that X is far from the mean.\par
If this probability of the green element is small,\par
that means that this value X is far from the mean from 10.\par
And that means also that there is a low probability\par
under the null hypothesis that the outcome is X\par
or further towards the alternative.\par
That the outcome is this point or larger.\par
And it also means that X is less likely to be generated\par
under the null hypothesis because this probability is small.\par
So in all these cases make sense\par
that we're going to declare that\par
the alternative hypothesis holds or accept that.\par
On the other hand, if we have high P value,\par
that means that X is close to the mean,\par
I'm sorry, X is close to the mean because the sum\par
of all these probability from X on is large.\par
So X is close to the mean\par
and it also means that there is a high probability\par
under the null hypothesis of getting X or something\par
which is further towards the alternative hypothesis.\par
And it also means that X is,\par
sorry, the X is likely to be generated\par
under the null hypothesis.\par
So in all these cases, we're going to actually\par
retain the null hypothesis.\par
And morphonomy,\par
the P value of X is the probability that X,\par
the number of heads that we get is at least\par
as far from 10 as X.\par
So it's the probability under the null hypothesis.\par
That X minus 10.\par
The distance between the number of heads we get in 10,\par
the difference is at least the difference between the X\par
of little considering and 10.\par
So here is a visualization.\par
So here is 10, which is the mean, and this is X,\par
and the P value of X is the probability\par
that we'll get some value here or here.\par
And we can calculate it for X which is zero or 20.\par
We are looking at X at this green area,\par
the probability that the number of heads that we'll get\par
is going to be farther, at least as far from 10 as X is.\par
In this case, we just placed to a value.\par
And the probability of these two values\par
if we calculate is 0.0002%.\par
On the other hand, if X is one or 19,\par
and then we're considering the case\par
where the number of heads minus 10\par
is bigger than or equal to in this case to 9,\par
so it's either zero, one, or 19 or 20 heads\par
and that's probable to this 0.004%.\par
And for X which is two or 18,\par
the P value is the probability that we'll get some,\par
either zero, one or two or 18, 19 or 20 heads.\par
And the probability is 0.0402% and so on.\par
So for five and 15,\par
we're looking at the probability\par
that the number of heads is going to be\par
either between zero and five or between 15 and 20.\par
Again, if this is X, we're looking at\par
to the left and to the right of these two points.\par
And this probability is 4%.\par
Finally for six and 14,\par
this probability is going to be 11.3%.\par
So now, if we're considering a 5% significant level,\par
and then if the P value is less than 5%,\par
then we'll accept the means that this probability is small.\par
So we accept the alternative.\par
And if this P value is bigger than 5%,\par
we are going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
So in our case, almost everything.\par
We accept the null hypothesis\par
because almost everything is less than 5%.\par
So this one, less than 5%,\par
and this is the last one which is less than 5%.\par
We accept the alternative.\par
And finally, the only one we will retain the,\par
we retain the null hypothesis is when we get six or 14 heads\par
and then the probability that we'll get some of below six\par
or at least 14 is we have 11.5% which is bigger than the 5%\par
significance level that we set out for.\par
So just to end, for general P values,\par
the P value for statistics T of T.\par
So we have a statistic T gets the value of T\par
is the probability that T, the statistic is either T\par
or further towards the alternative hypothesis.\par
And if the significance level is alpha,\par
so then if the P value is less than or equal to alpha,\par
we're going to accept the alternative\par
because it means that the probability that the null\par
generated eventually is small,\par
and if the P value is bigger than or equal to alpha,\par
or bigger than alpha, then that means\par
that there is a reasonable likelihood\par
that the null hypothesis generated our data,\par
and then retain the null hypothesis.\par
So to end, we discussed hypothesis testing\par
more systematically and precisely.\par
We defined the significance level,\par
which is the probability of making type-1 error\par
when null hypothesis is true.\par
And we presented two methods of calculating that test\par
with critical values method and the P values,\par
and then we discussed one and two-sided alternatives.\par
And next time, we'll talk about the lady tasting tea.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
}
 