{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello, and welcome back.\par
Last time, we spoke about hypothesis testing and p-values\par
and now we would like to use them to test the case\par
of the lady tasting tea,\par
which some people consider to be the "original"\par
hypothesis test.\par
We're going to calculate the exact p-values\par
and use them to accept the alternative hypothesis\par
or retain the null hypothesis,\par
and hopefully gain more intuition about hypothesis testing.\par
So we are back in the 1920s at Cambridge University\par
in England.\par
We're attending a refined social gathering\par
of college professors, or as they call them, they're dons.\par
But, very soon after the meeting starts,\par
it devolves into a rowdy brawl.\par
And the topic of contention?\par
As you might expect from Cambridge, England,\par
it's about how to properly prepare milk tea.\par
The question is in preparing milk tea,\par
should tea or milk be added first?\par
Most of the attendees say that it doesn't really matter\par
which one you add first,\par
so long as you have the same proportion of tea and milk,\par
then it will taste the same\par
and you probably won't even be able to tell the difference.\par
However, there's an algologist, lady Muriel Bristol,\par
who is very adamant.\par
She says that you have to add the tea first\par
or else it tastes foul.\par
The big argument is whether she's right or wrong,\par
and whether she can even tell the difference,\par
that she can even tell how the tea was made.\par
Just in case you wonder what an algologist is,\par
it's not someone who programs in algo;\par
this is the 1920s.\par
But rather someone like Lady Bristol specializes in algae.\par
How will this fight get resolved?\par
Luckily, there's a doctor in the house,\par
a statistics doctor.\par
His name is Ronald Fisher.\par
He proposes a test to see whether Lady Bristol knows\par
how the tea was made.\par
He comes up with two hypotheses:\par
the null hypothesis is that she cannot tell\par
which of the tea or milk was poured first.\par
The alternative of course is that she can discern\par
with probability, which is bigger than 50%.\par
There's probability, which will strictly be given 50%\par
that she can tell how the tea was made.\par
His test is as follows:\par
he says let's take eight cups of tea.\par
Four of them will be made tea first, like that,\par
so we start with the tea.\par
Four of them will be made milk first,\par
so we start with the milk.\par
Of course, however we start will then end\par
the other ingredients,\par
so all of them will end up looking like that,\par
like tea with milk.\par
He says let's take those eight cups,\par
four made tea first and four made milk first,\par
mix them up, and then ask the lady which of those eight,\par
which four were made tea first\par
and which four were made milk first.\par
How do we interpret the results\par
and decide whether she was right or not?\par
The lady knows that four cups were made tea first\par
and four were made milk first.\par
She has to decide which were which,\par
so she's going to always say four were milk first\par
and four were tea first.\par
If she guesses randomly, then we expect her\par
to get four of the eight cups correctly,\par
and four she's expected to get incorrectly.\par
For example, here we have the four cups\par
that were made tea first,\par
and the four milk first,\par
and maybe she'll get two of those correctly\par
and two of them incorrectly.\par
Likewise for the milk first.\par
She got four correctly and four incorrectly.\par
However, if she does not guess randomly\par
and instead if she can tell the difference,\par
then we would expect her to get more than four correctly.\par
Ideally, maybe even get all eight of them correctly.\par
Like her, she got all eight.\par
She said all those were tea first\par
and all those were milk first.\par
What we want to do is we want to calculate\par
the probability that she gets any number\par
of cups correctly.\par
The first thing we want to observe is\par
that she'll always get an even number of cups correctly.\par
She will get either zero or two or four or eight correctly.\par
She will never get three cups correctly, for example.\par
To show that, we'll first show that she always guesses\par
the same number of tea first and milk first correctly.\par
Let's look at an example.\par
Here we have the four cups that were made tea first\par
and the four cups that were made milk first.\par
Let's, for example, say that she guessed three\par
of the tea firsts correctly.\par
She got these three correctly.\par
What that means is for these three, she guessed\par
that they were made tea first.\par
She guessed that these three were made tea first.\par
What we want to show is that in that case,\par
she also guessed three of those correctly,\par
three of those that's milk first.\par
The reason is because she got three of those tea first,\par
then essentially by definition, this one is milk first.\par
She guessed one tea first, that's milk first, this one.\par
Remember that she was asked which four were tea\par
and which four were milk,\par
so she's going to guess four is milk first,\par
and she got one of this is milk first,\par
so she must get three of these as milk first.\par
She must get three milk firsts as milk firsts,\par
three of those.\par
What we showed is she got three of those four correctly.\par
What we showed is that if she got\par
three tea firsts correctly, these three,\par
then necessarily she'll get three of these correctly.\par
She'll get three milk firsts correctly.\par
This is true in general.\par
She'll always guess the same number of tea firsts\par
correctly as the number of milk first correctly.\par
If she gets x tea first correctly,\par
then she must get x milk first correctly.\par
For example, we tried for three,\par
but let's say she got all four of these correctly,\par
that means she got all of these as tea first,\par
and that means that she must guess all these milk firsts\par
so she'll get again four of these correctly.\par
What this means is that number that she gets correctly\par
is always even.\par
She always gets an even number correctly.\par
For example, here it's always three plus three,\par
which is six.\par
Or if it's four plus four, it will be eight.\par
She'll never get, for example, one correctly\par
or seven correctly.\par
That cannot happen.\par
If she guessed seven correctly for example,\par
she gets all the tea first correctly,\par
she cannot get only three milk first correctly\par
because she guessed all these correctly.\par
That means she must guess all the other ones\par
as milk first,\par
therefore she will guess correctly as well.\par
We know that our calculation is a little easier\par
because we only need to worry about an even number\par
that she guesses correctly.\par
Let's calculate the probabilities.\par
First, the null hypothesis is\par
that the lady randomly chooses four...\par
Randomly, that means effectively that she randomly chooses\par
four cups, and says they were made tea first.\par
We want to calculate the probability\par
under this null hypothesis that she guesses randomly.\par
The probability that she gets x number of cups correctly,\par
and we'll start with guessing six cups correctly.\par
Let's calculate this probability.\par
Under the null hypothesis that she will choose randomly,\par
we can assume that she chooses just four cups at random.\par
Four cups are tea first.\par
Here are the eight, and she randomly chooses four of those.\par
We want to calculate the number of ways she can make\par
these four choices.\par
The number four here, clearly there are eight,\par
and we're choosing four.\par
So, it's eight, choose four,\par
which is eight factorial divided\par
by four factorial, four factorial,\par
which is eight times seven times six times five\par
divided by four times three times two times one.\par
There's a little bit of cancellation going on,\par
so we cancel eight with the four and the two,\par
and then the six with the three,\par
and we're left with seven times two times five,\par
which is 70.\par
There are 70 ways to choose four cups out of eight.\par
We understand the probability that she gets six correct,\par
and she will get six correct, as we saw,\par
if and only if she gets three tea firsts correct\par
and three milk firsts correct.\par
Meaning, out of these eight, she got three of these correct\par
and three of these correct.\par
That's the only way that she could get six correctly,\par
three here and three here.\par
We want to see how many ways she can select four cups\par
and get three here correct and three here correct.\par
If she gets three cups here correctly,\par
and three cups here correctly,\par
the only way that can happen is if,\par
of the four cups that she guesses,\par
she gets three correct here\par
and then she gets exactly...\par
Three tea here and exactly one tea here, right?\par
Because if she got three correctly here\par
and three here, that means that she got these three\par
as tea correct,\par
and she got these three correctly,\par
so she guessed all those as milk,\par
and this one she guessed as tea.\par
The only way she can guess three tea first correctly\par
and three milk first correctly is if she guesses\par
three teas out of these four\par
and then one tea out of these four.\par
How many ways can she choose that?\par
She needs to choose three out of four here\par
and one out of four here.\par
It's four choose three times four choose one.\par
What is four choose three?\par
It's another way of choosing three out of four,\par
which is the same as the amount of choosing\par
the remaining ones, so that's four.\par
How many ways can she choose one cup here?\par
That's four choose one, that's going to be 16.\par
Now what is the probability that she guesses six correctly?\par
There are 16 choices that she could make for choosing\par
three tea correctly and three milk correctly,\par
so that would be 16.\par
That's out of the 70 total choices that she could make.\par
The probability is 16 over 70, which is roughly 0.229.\par
Roughly a probability one quarter, she'll get six correct.\par
What we want to do next is calculate the value,\par
not just for six, but for any number of cups\par
that she gets correctly,\par
and we want to then apply it to calculate the p-values.\par
Again, the null hypothesis is that she guesses randomly.\par
The alternative hypothesis is that she guesses correctly\par
with a probability which is strictly bigger than 50%.\par
We let small c, note the specific,\par
and capital c to note the random number of correct guesses\par
that she makes.\par
The p-value of c is the probability\par
under the null hypothesis, under the assumption\par
that she guesses randomly,\par
that she gets c or more correct.\par
In other words, it's the probability\par
that the random number she gets correct is at least c.\par
We want to calculate it.\par
First, we need to calculate the probability\par
that she gets any number correct.\par
C is the number that she gets correct,\par
and this is the probability under the null hypothesis\par
that she gets exactly c correct.\par
What is the probability that she'll get zero cups correctly?\par
That's the probability that, here are the eight cups,\par
and those that she chose tea first are all here.\par
How many ways can she choose it?\par
We see it's already one.\par
She has to choose exactly tea, tea, tea here\par
and then milk, milk, milk here.\par
Let's just calculate.\par
It's the probability that she chooses zero out of this\par
to be tea first,\par
and four out of these to be tea first,\par
so it's four choose zero times four choose four,\par
divide by 70.\par
As we said, this number is one.\par
It's one over 70.\par
What is the probability she gets two correctly?\par
That's the probability that she gets one of these\par
as tea first, and then three here as tea first.\par
She gets one correct here and one correct here.\par
How many ways can she do it?\par
It's four choose one, number of ways she can choose this one\par
times four choose three, no way she can choose this one.\par
Divide by 70 and this is four choosing which one\par
and this is also four choosing the one\par
that she's not selecting.\par
It's going to be 16 over 70.\par
What's the probability she gets four correct?\par
That's the probability she declared two here as tea first\par
and two here as tea first,\par
so it's four choose two times four choose two,\par
four choose two is six, so it's 36 over 70.\par
What is the probability she gets six correctly?\par
It's the probability she gets three tea first here\par
and one tea first here,\par
so that means she's correct on these three\par
and on these three.\par
That's going to be four choose three times four choose one,\par
which we have calculated before.\par
It's 16 over 70.\par
The probability she gets all correctly\par
is the probability she got all tea first here\par
and all milk first here.\par
The number of ways to do it is going to be\par
four choose four times four choose zero,\par
which is one over 70.\par
Now we calculate the probability of her being correct\par
on any number of cups.\par
Next we want to calculate the p-values,\par
which is the probability that she's correct\par
on at least this many cups.\par
What is the probability that she's correct\par
on at least one cup?\par
That's going to be,\par
so this is what we calculate,\par
the probability she's correct on at least eight cups.\par
Here's the probability she's correct on exactly eight cups,\par
so it's one over 70,\par
and it's roughly 0.014.\par
What is the probability that she is correct\par
on bigger or equal to six cups?\par
That's going to be one over 70 plus 16 over 70,\par
or 17 over 70, which is roughly 24%.\par
The probability that she'll be correct\par
on at least four cups is going to be\par
17 over 70, which is the sum of these two,\par
plus 36, so it's 53 over 70,\par
which is roughly 76%.\par
The probability she will be correct on two or more cups\par
is going to be 53 over 70 plus 16,\par
that gives us this 69 over 70,\par
which is roughly .986 percent.\par
The probability she is correct on at least zero cups\par
is, of course, one.\par
She will always be correct on at least zero cups.\par
These are the p-values.\par
They go from one, for zero correct, then 0.986,\par
all the way to 0.014.\par
How do we use it for hypothesis testing?\par
Again, the null hypothesis is that Lady Bristol\par
guesses randomly.\par
The alternative is she guesses with probability\par
more than 50%, strictly more.\par
At the 5% significance level, the probability\par
of type one error being less than .5%.\par
We want this type one error to happen less than 5%.\par
We need it under the null hypothesis.\par
We accept the alternative with probability less than 5%.\par
The p-value of c is the probability\par
under the null hypothesis that we get c or more correct\par
when she guesses randomly.\par
If this probability is bigger than 5%,\par
if the p-value is bigger than 5%,\par
that means under the null hypothesis,\par
this outcome, the probability that goes c this value,\par
is bigger than 5%.\par
It's high probability.\par
If that's the case, then we're not going to reject\par
the null hypothesis explains what we saw,\par
so we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
On the other hand, if the p-value is less than 5%,\par
the probability under the null hypothesis\par
that will observe this outcome\par
or something even more extreme under the null hypothesis,\par
this probability is smaller than 5%.\par
Then it's not likely, it's unlikely\par
under the null hypothesis\par
and we're going to assume that the alternative hypothesis\par
is correct.\par
In fact, she can guess better than 50 50.\par
Now, let's calculate things.\par
We have c, the number that she gets correctly,\par
the p-value which we calculated in the previous slide,\par
p-value's percentage compared to 5%,\par
and then the hypothesis that we're going to decide on.\par
If she guesses zero correctly,\par
the p-value is one.\par
The probability she'll get zero correctly is one.\par
The percentage is 100,\par
so this is clearly bigger than 5%.\par
That's explained by the null hypothesis.\par
If the null hypothesis is correct,\par
she'll guess more than zero correctly,\par
probability 100%.\par
There's no reason to reject the null hypothesis,\par
and we retain it.\par
If she gets two correct,\par
the p-value is 69/70, she'll get two or more correct\par
with probability 99% almost.\par
Again, bigger than 5%.\par
Again, no reason to reject the null hypothesis.\par
If the null hypothesis is true,\par
we'll see that she'll get two or more\par
almost all the time.\par
Likewise, if it's 4, the probability is 75%.\par
Bigger than 5%, we're going to retain the null hypothesis.\par
Even if it's six, the probability\par
that she'll get six or more.\par
Getting six is tough,\par
because you're expected to get four.\par
Six is tougher.\par
What happens with probability roughly a quarter.\par
Still we're conservative.\par
We're not going to reject the null hypothesis.\par
On the other hand, if she got all eight correct,\par
that happens to be 1 over 70,\par
which is 1.4%, which is less than 5%.\par
The probability of this happening is very small\par
and the null hypothesis is smaller\par
than our significance level of 5%.\par
We're going to say that the null hypothesis\par
does not hold, and in fact,\par
we're going to accept the alternative hypothesis.\par
What we see here is if we take Fisher's test,\par
then almost always we'll be,\par
since we are conservative,\par
we're going to say that the null hypothesis\par
is plausible and we're going to retain it.\par
The only case in which we'll accept\par
the alternative hypothesis is if she guesses\par
all eight cups correctly.\par
Only then will we accept the alternative hypothesis\par
with 5% significance level.\par
The question, of course, is how did Lady Bristol do?\par
Remember that she got eight cups.\par
Of those eight cups, how many did she guess correctly?\par
She guessed all eight of them correctly.\par
We conclude that with significance level 5%,\par
we accept the alternative hypothesis\par
that indeed Lady Bristol can tell how milk was made.\par
To summarize, we looked at the lady tasting tea,\par
which some consider to be the original hypothesis test.\par
We saw that we could calculate for this case\par
the exact p-values,\par
and we can use them to decide whether we accept\par
the alternative hypothesis or retain the null hypothesis.\par
Hopefully we got some intuition.\par
Next time, we're going to discuss z and t tests.\par
I'll see you then.\par
(outro music)\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
}
 