{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hello again, everyone.\par
Last time we talked about permutations,\par
and in this lecture we'll discuss combinations.\par
So what are they?\par
So first we're going to look at subsets of a set.\par
And so a subset of size k is called a k-subset.\par
And we'll denote all subsets of size k\par
of the set of elements one up to n by this notation,\par
which we'll call the set one up to n choose k.\par
So this is nothing but a collection of all k-subsets,\par
all subsets of size k,\par
of the set one up to n.\par
So let's see a few examples.\par
So what is the collection of all subsets of one up to three\par
that have size one?\par
That is exactly the collection that consists\par
of the set \{1\}, the set \{2\}, and the set \{3\}.\par
And how about the collection of all subsets of size two,\par
in other words, 2-subsets,\par
of the set one up to three?\par
That's the collection that consists\par
of \{1,2\}, \{1,3\}, and \{2,3\}.\par
And how about the collection of all two-element subsets\par
of one up to four?\par
That's a collection that consists\par
of \{1,2\}, \{1,3\}, \{1,4\}, \{2,3\}, \{2,4\}, and \{3,4\}.\par
And of course, as you might guess,\par
what we're interested is\par
counting the number of such subsets, okay?\par
So before we do that,\par
we want to look at an analogous question\par
about sequences with k ones.\par
So we define the collection n choose k,\par
the set n, one up to n choose k,\par
to be the collection of all k-subsets or k-element subsets\par
of one up to n, okay?\par
And what we want to see is that it corresponds,\par
it's analogous to the collection of all n-bit sequences\par
with k ones.\par
To see that,\par
let's look at a few examples of subsets\par
and binary sequences.\par
So for this set,\par
one up to three choose one,\par
this set's subsets are\par
the subset \{1\}, the subset \{2\}, and the subset \{3\},\par
and these are all size one subsets of one up to three.\par
And how about binary sequences of length three\par
with a single one?\par
These are the sequences 100, 010, and 001.\par
And we see that there's a one-to-one correspondence\par
between those subsets and binary sequences.\par
For example, one,\par
this represents the location of the single one.\par
Here it's, we have a single one in the first location.\par
This would mean that we have a single one\par
but it's in the second location,\par
and that's the sequence here.\par
And this subset corresponds to the sequence which with,\par
again, single one which appears in the third location.\par
And how about the collection of all two-element subsets\par
of one up to three?\par
And again, this is the collection.\par
These are all the two-element subsets of one up to three,\par
\{1,2\}, \{1,3\}, and \{2,3\}.\par
And that'll correspond to the,\par
to binary sequences of length three with two ones,\par
namely these sequences,\par
110, 101, and 011.\par
All of them have length three,\par
all of them have two ones,\par
and the correspondence goes as follows.\par
If you look at a sequence,\par
for example, here \{1,2\},\par
that means that you are looking\par
at a binary string with two ones.\par
The first one,\par
one of them is at location one,\par
and the second one is location two.\par
That's this sequence here.\par
And this corresponds, this subset corresponds to,\par
again, to a binary string of length three with two ones,\par
locations one and three.\par
That's this substring.\par
And this one corresponds to 011,\par
ones in location two and three.\par
And if we looked at four choose two,\par
we won't list all of them,\par
but if we take the subset \{1,2\},\par
that will correspond now to four-bit strings,\par
'cuz we have subsets of one up to four,\par
in location \{1,2\} and then \{1,3\},\par
locations one and three,\par
and the last one \{3,4\}\par
means that we have,\par
we're looking at strings of length four,\par
'cuz we're taking subsets of one up to four,\par
and we have two ones in location three and four.\par
That's this binary sequence here, okay?\par
So to summarize what we have seen is\par
we looked at two interpretations of n choose k,\par
of this collection taking the set one up to n choose k.\par
One of them was as subsets of size k of the set one up to n,\par
and the other one was as n-bit sequences with k ones.\par
And, for example, again, to remind us,\par
if we take the set one up to three choose two,\par
then that will correspond\par
to the collection \{1,2\}, \{1,3\}, \{2,3\},\par
and if we consider it as binary sequences,\par
it will correspond to 110,\par
that is one and two,\par
ones in location one and two,\par
101, and that's one in locations one and three,\par
and 011, ones in location two and three, okay?\par
And so we saw that there is one-to-one correspondence,\par
therefore these two sets,\par
the set of k-element subsets of one up to n or any n set\par
and the set of n-bit sequences with k ones\par
will both have the same number of elements,\par
and we want to see what this number is.\par
And we'll mostly count sequences.\par
We'll always, or mostly do this.\par
Why?\par
Because at least for me,\par
they are easier to see,\par
because we just look at sequences,\par
we see what we have,\par
and as we'll see later on,\par
they also generalize to more than binary sequences\par
and more, selecting more than one set,\par
so it will be easy to generalize.\par
But because it's the same number,\par
then the same will apply to subsets.\par
So whatever we're going to say here\par
will apply to subsets as well, okay?\par
So what we're trying to do is, again,\par
count how many elements are in those sets, okay?\par
What is the size,\par
what is the cardinality of the set,\par
of two-element subsets of one up to three.\par
Right, so that's we're going to do.\par
We're going to find the number of n-bit sequences\par
with k ones, okaY?\par
So we'll denote the number by n choose k,\par
and this is going to be the cardinality of the collection\par
of the elements one up to n choose k.\par
So just to clarify,\par
and so this is the number of n-bit sequences with k ones.\par
And again,\par
and this is all going to be called\par
the binomial coefficient, okay?\par
So this symbol here is the binomial coefficient.\par
And again, this is the number\par
and this is the collection of all such elements, okay?\par
So, for example, three choose two,\par
when this is a number,\par
is the number of two-element subsets\par
in one up to three, okay?\par
So here it's the size of the set 110, 101, 011,\par
which is three.\par
So therefore three choose two,\par
this binomial coefficient,\par
is the size of,\par
or the cardinality of the collection\par
of all two elements of size three.\par
There are three elements,\par
therefore the binomial coefficient three choose two\par
is equal to three.\par
And if you want to see where this number comes from,\par
why it has to be three,\par
then one way to do it is to specify\par
the locations of the ones.\par
So we can do that by specifying\par
ordered pairs from one up to three.\par
For example, we can specify that we put one in location one\par
and then a one in location two.\par
That will correspond to the sequence 110.\par
Or that we put a one in location one\par
and then a one in location three,\par
and that will correspond to the sequence 101.\par
Or we put a one location,\par
the second location,\par
and then in the first location,\par
that will correspond to 110.\par
Locations two and three, that's 011.\par
Location 31, that's 101.\par
And location 32,\par
location three, put a one in location three\par
and location, one location two,\par
and that's 011, okay?\par
So if we did that,\par
then we specify all possible two sequences of,\par
binary sequences of length three with two ones, okay?\par
But as we obviously observed,\par
this number is actually six,\par
whereas what we're trying to count is three.\par
And why is this number six?\par
Because we specified,\par
we took numbers from one up to three\par
and we specified two of them.\par
So this is the number of permutations,\par
two permutations of one up to three,\par
and as we've seen in the last lecture,\par
this number is going to be\par
the second falling power of three,\par
so it's three times two,\par
because we have three possibilities for the first location,\par
one, two, or three,\par
and then once we chose the first location,\par
we have two possibilities for the second location,\par
in this case two or three.\par
So it's three times two,\par
which is six, okay?\par
And this is the number of all the locations,\par
but as we obviously observed,\par
this will overcount the number of binary sequences,\par
and that's because if we choose location one first\par
and then location two,\par
we get 110,\par
but if we choose location two\par
and then location one for the ones,\par
we'll get the same sequence, 110.\par
So these two ordered locations\par
will both correspond to the sequence 110.\par
Likewise if we chose to put a one location\par
in the first location\par
and then a one in the third location,\par
we'll get the same outcome,\par
the same sequence 101,\par
as if we chose to put a one in location three\par
and then a one in location,\par
in the first location, location 31,\par
we'll get again 101.\par
Both of those will give us 101.\par
And similarly,\par
if we first put a one in location two\par
and then a one in location three,\par
we get 011.\par
If we first put a one in location three\par
and one in location two,\par
we get again 011,\par
so that will also correspond to 011, okay?\par
And when we do that,\par
we see that three choose two,\par
the number of sequences of length three with two ones.\par
That's our definition of three choose two.\par
It's the size of the cardinality\par
of the set of all sequences of length three with two ones.\par
And that cardinality is therefore going to be\par
three to the two falling power divided by two.\par
It's this number here,\par
which is three to the second falling power,\par
but each sequence we counted twice,\par
so we divide by two.\par
That's going to be six over two,\par
which is three,\par
which agrees with what we have found\par
just by writing down all the sequences, okay?\par
So what we would like to do\par
is calculate the binomial coefficients\par
not just for sequences of length three with a single bit,\par
that is, one,\par
but for arbitrary sequences of length n with k ones.\par
So in other words,\par
we want to determine n choose k,\par
which is the number of n-bit sequences with k ones.\par
We wanna see what this number is.\par
And just to remind ourselves,\par
this number here,\par
when we have number n on top,\par
is a number,\par
is just a cardinality,\par
whereas this quantity here is a collection of subsets.\par
So this here is the collection of all...\par
is the collection of all...\par
I'm sorry, it's the collection of all...\par
I apologize.\par
Let me start this again.\par
- [Man] That's okay. - Sorry.\par
- [Man] No, that's fine. - Okay.\par
- [Man] (mumbles)\par
- Yes. Okay.\par
- [Man] (mumbles)\par
- So what we would like to do now, of course,\par
is move from three-bit sequences with a single one\par
to general binary sequences,\par
so n-bit sequences with k ones.\par
So in other words,\par
we would like to determine\par
the binomial coefficient n choose k,\par
which corresponds to the number of n-bit sequences\par
with k ones.\par
You wanna see how many subsequences there are.\par
And just to make sure we understand,\par
this number here on the left is a number,\par
is just an integer, is the number,\par
n choose k is the number of n-bit sequences with k ones,\par
and this quantity here on the right is a set,\par
is the collection of all n-bit sequences with k ones.\par
And we are interested in the cardinality of the set.\par
Okay? Right.\par
So what we can do if we want\par
to calculate the cardinality of the set\par
and what we could specify the location of the ones,\par
of the k ones in order\par
and then write them one by one.\par
So, for example,\par
if we said location 123,\par
and then we write a one in location one,\par
and then a one in location two\par
and then a one in location three.\par
Or if we specify the order 531,\par
we write a one in location five\par
and then a one in location three\par
and a one in location one,\par
and we want to count all of those.\par
So, and notice,\par
so that the number of ones we are writing is k.\par
In this case it's three.\par
And that each number here is a location,\par
and the location,\par
'cuz we're looking at n-bit strings,\par
then each number here is a number between one and n\par
corresponding to the location where to write the one, okay?\par
So if you want to calculate the number of ordered locations,\par
we can do that for,\par
then this number, as we know,\par
is, as we have seen in the previous lecture,\par
is n to the falling k,\par
because what we're specifying here is just a permu-,\par
is just a k permutation of one up to n,\par
and in this case we are specifying a three permutation.\par
We specify one number between one and n,\par
and then a different number between one and n,\par
and then a third different number between number one and n,\par
and in general that'll be n times n minus one\par
times n minus two\par
all the way up to n minus k plus one\par
different ways of specifying\par
the locations of the ones in order.\par
And, but notice that every binary sequences with k one\par
will correspond to k factorial ordered locations,\par
namely, for every binary sequences of k ones,\par
we will write it in k factorial different ways\par
if we specify the order.\par
For example, if we take the sequence 10101,\par
then if we specify the order of writing\par
a one in the first location\par
and then one in the third location\par
and one in the fifth location,\par
we will get this sequence.\par
But we'll get the same sequence\par
if we specified the order 1,5,3,\par
namely, we wrote one location in the first location,\par
and then one in the fifth location\par
and then one in the third location,\par
we'd get again the same sequence.\par
And likewise if we wrote it in this order,\par
wrote the ones in this order,\par
and so on, okay?\par
And so we got the same binary sequence\par
by writing the ones in six different orders,\par
as we see here.\par
And of course this number six comes\par
because we have three locations\par
and we specify their order,\par
and thus we know,\par
again from the previous lecture,\par
there are going to be three factorial ways\par
of specifying the order.\par
So in other words,\par
we have the number of the sequences is n choose k,\par
but we write it, each one,\par
we can write each one in k factorial different orders.\par
And when we multiply those two,\par
when we take the number of sequences\par
times the number of ways to write them,\par
we get the total number of ways of writing\par
three different elements of one up to n,\par
and that number is n to the k factorial, okay?\par
So we get this relation\par
that the number of k-bit sequences...\par
I'm sorry, of n-bit sequences with k ones,\par
the number times,\par
that's the number of sequences that we have here,\par
and then each one we can write\par
in k factorial different ways,\par
and when we multiply these numbers,\par
we'll get the number of ways of writing three locations,\par
three different locations from one up to n,\par
which is n choose k.\par
So just rearranging the terms here,\par
we get n choose k is n to the k falling power\par
divided by k factorial, okay?\par
And another way of saying the same thing\par
is that when we write the number,\par
the locations of the ones in order,\par
we have n to the k falling power ways of writing it, okay?\par
But every k factorial of them\par
are going to yield the same sequence,\par
like here,\par
every way of writing 1,3,5, 1,5,3,\par
all three factorial,\par
or in general k factorial way of writing\par
those locations of the ones in order\par
will correspond to the same sequence.\par
So if you want to count the number of sequences,\par
we'll divide n to the k factorial by k factorial,\par
and that's n choose k.\par
Now once we do that,\par
we can write things a little more symmetrically,\par
and we remember that n to the k falling power\par
is just n factorial divided by n minus k factorial,\par
so this number is going to be n factorial\par
divided by k factorial n minus k factorial.\par
And that's because this number is n times n minus one\par
all the way to n minus k plus one,\par
which is just n factorial divided by n minus k factorial,\par
as again we have seen in the last lecture.\par
So we, in other words,\par
we found the expression\par
for the binomial coefficient n choose k\par
is just n factorial divided by k factorial\par
and n minus k factorial, okay?\par
So what we're going to do next\par
is get a little bit of intuition\par
for the binomial coefficient\par
by looking at its value for small n and k\par
and then for simple n and k, all right?\par
So that's what we're going to do.\par
We want to see why the binomial coefficient n choose k,\par
which is the cardinality of the set\par
of all n-bit sequences with k one,\par
why is it n factorial divided by k factorial\par
n minus k factorial,\par
and want to do it for small values of n and k, okay?\par
So let's look at first choosing,\par
looking at three-bit sequences with a single one.\par
That's a collection of all three-bit sequences\par
with a single one.\par
And we see that the cardinality is three choose one,\par
which is three factorial\par
divided by one factorial two factorial,\par
which is three,\par
which agrees with this just enumeration here of three.\par
And the reason we get three\par
is because we're choosing the location of the one,\par
and we have here three possible locations.\par
We need to choose the location of the ones,\par
and there are three locations\par
and we can choose one,\par
so there's just three ways\par
of choosing one number out of three.\par
How about the set of all three-bit sequences\par
with two ones?\par
Here we enumerate all such sequences,\par
three bits, two ones.\par
And what is that number?\par
According to this formula,\par
it's going to be equal to...\par
And we see there are three.\par
And according to our formula,\par
it's three factorial\par
divided by two factorial one factorial.\par
Three factorial is six, two factorial is one,\par
so again we get three,\par
which agrees with the number here.\par
And one way to see why this is the right number\par
is to observe that here either we can say\par
we're choosing two locations of the one,\par
or alternatively we can say we're just choosing\par
the location of the zero,\par
and choosing one location for the zero\par
is the same as choosing one location for the one.\par
There are three ways of doing that.\par
So choose location of the zero,\par
there are three ways to do that,\par
and that's why this number should be three,\par
and it is according to our formula.\par
How about choosing four-bit sequences with two ones?\par
So here we enumerated all of them,\par
0011 up to 1100, okay?\par
And how many such sequences are there?\par
Well, according to our binomial formula,\par
the number should be four choose two,\par
which is four factorial\par
divided by two factorial two factorial.\par
Four factorial is 24,\par
divided by four gave us a six.\par
And again you can check that this is correct,\par
this number is really six.\par
And why do we get this number?\par
Because we need to choose the locations of the one.\par
To choose the first location, we have four possibilities.\par
The first one can be here in location one and location two\par
and location three and location four,\par
and then we,\par
once we chose the location of the first one,\par
there are three ways to choose the location\par
of the second one, okay?\par
So that gives us four times three, which is 12.\par
But every pair,\par
if we choose one location,\par
say, location two and then location four,\par
it's the same as choosing location four\par
and then location two,\par
so each sequence was chosen twice,\par
so we need to divide 12 by two,\par
and that gives us six.\par
So that's just another way of seeing (mumbles), okay?\par
So what we did here was we explained\par
where n choose k comes from for small n and k.\par
In this case, n is three or four\par
and k is one or two.\par
And what we want to do next is look at n choose k\par
and see, explain it for values that are simple,\par
not necessarily small.\par
So we're looking at simple n choose k\par
where n and k can be very large, one of them,\par
but maybe there's something that makes it simple, okay?\par
So for example,\par
if you look at n choose zero,\par
according to our formula\par
it's n factorial divided by zero factorial n factorial,\par
but remember that zero factorial is one,\par
so this gives us one.\par
And why is n choose zero one?\par
Well, this corresponds to the number of n-bit sequences\par
with zero ones,\par
namely, the number of all n-bit sequences\par
that are all zero.\par
And there's exactly one such sequence, okay?\par
How about n choose n?\par
According to the binomial formula,\par
it's n factorial divided by n factorial zero factorial,\par
and again, zero factorial is one,\par
so this is again one.\par
And why n choose n should be one?\par
Because it counts the number of n-bit sequences with n ones.\par
In other words,\par
it counts how many all-one sequences are there,\par
and there's exactly one all-one sequences,\par
single all-one sequence,\par
so this number should be one.\par
How about n choose one?\par
And again, you see we're doing it,\par
this number is simple in that,\par
in the sense that this is one,\par
but it can be larger,\par
n can be any number.\par
So n choose one,\par
according to the binomial formula,\par
is n factorial divided by one factorial\par
and then n minus one factorial.\par
And this number,\par
everything will cancel except n,\par
so this number is n.\par
And why should n choose one be n?\par
Because we're counting how many n-bit sequences are there\par
with a single one,\par
and this corresponds to choosing the location\par
of the single one,\par
and there are n ways of choosing this location.\par
Choose location of a single one,\par
there are n ways of doing it.\par
How about n choose two?\par
N choose two corresponds to the number of n-bit sequences\par
with two ones,\par
and according to the binomial formula,\par
it's going to be n factorial divided by two factorial\par
and then n minus two factorial.\par
And we'll see that a lot of cancellations will happen here,\par
and the numerator will just have n times n minus one.\par
The rest will cancel here,\par
and then divide by two.\par
So it's n times n minus one over two.\par
And the reason is because we can choose\par
the first location of the one in n ways,\par
and then we can still choose the second location\par
in n minus one ways,\par
but each sequence,\par
each binary sequence we will choose twice,\par
so we have n times n minus one divided by two,\par
and that's this number here, okay?\par
So I would,\par
because these numbers are so important,\par
I would like to give another explanation\par
of why n choose two is n times n minus one over two.\par
So remember that,\par
so we just said n choose two is when we have the set here,\par
n choose two is the collection of all n-bit strings\par
with two ones.\par
So this is one up to n, n choose two,\par
so it's the collection of all n-bit strings with two ones.\par
And n choose two is the cardinality of this set,\par
is the number of such elements.\par
Now we can define Ai to be the collection of n-bit strings\par
such that the first one is at location i, okay,\par
where i is some number between one and n minus one.\par
So here is an example.\par
We have n-bit strings,\par
and Ai is the collection of all sequences of n bits\par
with two ones\par
where the first one is at location i,\par
namely the first i minus one gets us zero,\par
and then we have one here,\par
and then these can be anything\par
except that they have to have a single one there.\par
So we have n minus i locations,\par
so here,\par
that have exactly a single one.\par
So how many such sequences are there,\par
namely how many sequences are there\par
where the first one is in location i,\par
but we have to choose a single one\par
amongst the n minus i remaining locations.\par
So the size of A sub i is exactly n minus i,\par
corresponding to the n minus i possibilities\par
of choosing the second i, okay?\par
So first we observe that the size of A sub i,\par
the number of n-bit strings\par
where the first i is in location i is n minus i.\par
For example, if you choose An, A n minus one,\par
how many sequence, binary sequences are there of length n\par
where the first location is in location,\par
the first one is in location n minus one?\par
You'll get n minus n minus one, which is one.\par
That's because if the first one is in location n minus one,\par
there's only one sequence, 00011.\par
Now observe also that the sets A sub i are disjoint,\par
because if you have,\par
if you take Ai,\par
then we have the first i here is in location i,\par
and we see this to take another set,\par
say, A i plus five,\par
then the first one would be in location i plus five,\par
so these,\par
the binary strings in the two sets must be different,\par
therefore, so the Ais are disjoint.\par
In other words, n choose i,\par
the collection of all n-bit strings with two ones,\par
is the disjoint union of A1, A2,\par
up to A n minus one.\par
With this location, as you remember,\par
it just means regular union.\par
We're just remind our, reminding ourselves\par
that these sets are disjoint.\par
And therefore by the summation rule,\par
we get that n choose two,\par
the cardinality of the set\par
of all n-bit strings with two ones,\par
is this,\par
is going to be the summation of the set,\par
size of the sets A sub i, okay?\par
Because these sets are disjoint.\par
So the size of the union is just the sum of the sizes.\par
And this is going to be n minus one for A1,\par
the size of A1 plus n minus two\par
and so on up to one.\par
And so we know this arithmetic sum\par
one up to n minus one is n times n minus one over two.\par
So that gives us another explanation for this set,\par
for this, the binomial coefficient n choose two.\par
All right.\par
So I also want to show you that you can calculate\par
the binomial coefficients by hand fairly easily\par
for fairly large numbers.\par
So we know that n choose k is n to the k falling power\par
divided by k factorial,\par
and so we can therefore calculate, for example,\par
seven choose two is going to be seven times six divided,\par
so that's seven to the second falling power,\par
divided by two factorial, which is two times one.\par
We cancel the two and the six\par
and we get seven times three, which is 21.\par
Also notice that n choose k\par
is the same as n choose n minus k,\par
and, because,\par
we'll talk about this a little more later,\par
but the reason is because n choose k\par
is n factorial divided by k factorial\par
and then divided by n minus k factorial,\par
and this is the same as n factorial\par
divided by n minus k factorial k factorial.\par
We'll say that again in the next video.\par
And so if k is bigger than n over two,\par
then it might be easier,\par
instead of calculating n choose k,\par
to calculate n choose n minus k.\par
So, for example,\par
if you want to calculate seven choose five,\par
we can calculate seven choose two.\par
Both of them are seven factorial divided by five factorial\par
divided by two factorial,\par
this and that.\par
So we can put seven choose two,\par
seven choose two, as we calculated here, was 21.\par
We can also cancel a lot of terms.\par
So if we have, for example, 12 choose nine,\par
that's the same as 12 choose three,\par
which is 12 to the third falling power,\par
12 times 11 times 10,\par
divided by three times two times one,\par
and then you can cancel this six here with the 12,\par
so we get it's 220.\par
And using this we can calculate fairly large\par
binomial coefficients by hand,\par
as you can see.\par
But if not,\par
you can always Google or write a program that does it.\par
To summarize,\par
we looked at two equivalent problems.\par
One is counting how many subsets of size k\par
does a set of size n have,\par
and the other problem was how many sequences,\par
binary sequences of length n have k ones.\par
We showed that these two problems were the same\par
and we count,\par
we call the number of such sequences\par
over the number of such subsets,\par
we call that the binomial coefficient n choose k,\par
and we gave a formula for that,\par
which is n factorial divided by k factorial\par
and divide again by n minus k factorial.\par
And what we want to do next is give some examples\par
of binomial coefficients.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
Given a set of n numbers, are there generally more combinations or permutations for a subset of this set?\par
\par
\tab\par
Combinations\par
\par
\tab\par
Permutations\par
\par
Submit\par
}
 