{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hi again, in the last two videos\par
we talked about the binomial coefficient,\par
which count the number of n-bits strings with k ones\par
or the number of k element subsets over a set of size n\par
and these videos are a little long.\par
So in this new, in this video now,\par
we'll talk about properties of binomial coefficients\par
and we'll keep it very short.\par
Okay, so first, we want to say, to show as we had mentioned\par
that n choose k equals n choose n minus k.\par
Now, for example, if you take 5 choose 3\par
that's 5 factoral divided by three factoral, two factoral.\par
And that's the same as 5 factoral\par
divided by 2 factoral three factoral,\par
which is 5 choose 2, okay?\par
So, we can see that this is true for\par
5 choose 3 and 5 choose 2.\par
If you want to show it in general, we'll give two proofs.\par
Both of them are going to be simple.\par
The first one is Algebraic,\par
and it just repeats what we wrote here.\par
And n choose k is n factoral divided by k factoral\par
and minus k factoral can reorganize the elements here.\par
That's n minus k factoral and k factoral\par
and that's going to give us n choose n minus k.\par
So that's one,\par
and if you want another proof, which is Combinatorial,\par
what we're going to do,\par
is we're going to count the same collection of elements\par
in two different ways.\par
So, we're going to show that, in other words,\par
that there is a one to one correspondence\par
between the set of all\par
strings of length and width k1's\par
and string of length n\par
with n minus k1's.\par
And the way to do it is by just complementing\par
the bits in the sequence\par
to create a 1 to 1 correspondence\par
between these two collections.\par
For example, if we want to consider\par
this collection of all 4 bit strings with three 1s,\par
we want to show that it's in 1 to 1 correspondence\par
with all 4 grid lengths, with a single one,\par
4 minus 3, 1,\par
and here is the mapping, so if we take\par
a sequence, a binary sequence of length 4,\par
with 3 1s we can just complement the bits,\par
so instead of 1110, we'll have 0001,\par
this mapping is 1 to 1, it maps every element here\par
to a unique element here,\par
and therefore these two sets have the same cardinality,\par
what we have here, is,\par
the collection of all 4 bit strings with 3 1s,\par
and we mapped it to the collection\par
of all 4 bit sequences with a single 1,\par
so therefore these two have the same size,\par
and therefore we have that 4 choose 3\par
the size of the set 4 choose 3\par
is the same as 4 choose 1,\par
and in general n choose k\par
is the number of n bit sequences with k1s,\par
and it's going to be equal to the number\par
of n bit sequences with n minus k1s,\par
and that's n choose n minus k.\par
Okay, another\par
identity that we would like to show\par
is that n choose k is n over k\par
times n minus 1 choose k minus 1.\par
So this is a recursive way\par
of defining the binomial coefficients.\par
You can define the binomial coefficients n choose k\par
by first defining n minus 1 choose k minus 1,\par
then multiply by n or k,\par
which can be useful when calculating\par
large binomial coefficients\par
if you need to calculate all of them,\par
and you don't want to calculate n factoral,\par
k factoral and so on.\par
Now, the way we'll do it\par
is so first let's do an example,\par
so 5 choose 3 is 5 factoral divided by 3 factoral\par
2 factoral, which is 10,\par
and it's going to be equal to 5 over 3 times 6,\par
that's again 10, which is 5 over 3 times 4 choose 2,\par
which is 6, so we can see an example of this equality.\par
And the way we'll do it is by taking advantage\par
of our interpretation of n choose k\par
as the number, or as the number of binary strings.\par
So we can see that we can generalize it\par
from binary string to strings over\par
alphabet of size 3,\par
and get a simple proof of this equality.\par
So one nice way to prove things like this\par
is if you want to show that combinatorially,\par
then it's often convenient not to have\par
numbers in the denominator,\par
not to divide things, but multiply things,\par
so we just count sets,\par
using the product rule, and we don't need to divide.\par
So in other words what we want to show\par
is we want to show that n choose k times k,\par
this one here, is n times n minus 1 choose k minus 1.\par
And the way we'll do it is by counting\par
the number of length and ternary strings,\par
strings over 0, 1, and 2,\par
with k minus 1 1's,\par
and one 2,\par
and we'll show that this number is equal to both\par
the left hand side and the right hand side.\par
So one way to count both the number of length-n\par
ternary strings with k1 1's and one 2,\par
is to first specify,\par
and here is just to give us an example,\par
this is for n equal to 4, and k equal to 3,\par
recounting sequences like 0112, 1012, and so on,\par
all these sequences have length 4,\par
they have k minus 1, namely they have two 1's\par
and a single 2.\par
Length 4, two 1's and a single 2,\par
length 4, two 1's and a single 2,\par
we want to count how many sets of sequences there are.\par
So one way to do it,\par
which is written on the left hand side,\par
is to first choose the locations,\par
so notice that here you have k minus 1 1's,\par
and a single 2,\par
then you have a total of k non-zero elements,\par
so what we can do is we can first choose\par
the key locations of these non-zeros,\par
the k minus 1 1's and the single 2,\par
(speaks softly) of them, we need to choose\par
the locations of the non-zeros,\par
you can do it in n choose k different ways.\par
And then once we chose the location\par
of the k non-zeros,\par
we need to specify the location of the single 2,\par
okay, there's a single 2,\par
and that, out of the location that we chose,\par
the k ways of doing it, again by the product rule,\par
the number of sub-sequences is n choose k,\par
deciding first on the location of non-zeros,\par
and then deciding on the location of the 2,\par
is this product.\par
So this is one way to count how many\par
length-n ternary strings are there with k minus 1 1's\par
and a single 2.\par
Okay, another way to count this number\par
is to, and this was choosing the location of the 2,\par
that was the key.\par
Another way of calculating this number\par
is to first choose the location of the 2,\par
and there are n ways of doing that,\par
and once we chose the location of the 2,\par
for example, here we said that the 2 is in\par
the last location,\par
we need to specify this sequence,\par
and we have n minus 1 location left,\par
and we have k minus 1 1's,\par
so we have n minus 1 choose k minus 1,\par
so that's how many ways we have,\par
from the remaining n minus 1 location,\par
choose location of the k minus 1 1's, or the single 2.\par
So that's this.\par
So we count this number in two different ways,\par
and we got these two values, therefore,\par
these two values must be the same.\par
Here is another identity that is very useful.\par
What is summation from I going from 0 up to n\par
of n choose I?\par
And we're going to show it's 2 to the n,\par
and again you could, so here is an example.\par
3 choose 0, plus 3 choose 1, plus 3 choose 2,\par
plus 3 choose 3, is what?\par
3 choose 0 is 1, 3 choose 1 is 3,\par
3 choose 2 is 3, 3 choose 3 is 1,\par
so we have 1 plus 3 plus 3 plus 1,\par
which gives us 8, which is 2 cubed.\par
And this is (speaks softly) summation\par
of n choose I is 2 to the n,\par
and the question is why?\par
And again you could give an Algebraic proof,\par
and a Combinatorial proof.\par
We'll give here the Combinatorial proof.\par
So notice that the sequence of all n bit strings\par
with, can be written as the union\par
of all n choose I, of all sequences of length\par
and binary string with i1's, okay,\par
and therefore we get that the size of this set,\par
the number of n bit strings is 2 to the n,\par
and this union is disjoint,\par
because sequences with single 1's\par
are disjoint from sequences with two 1's, and so on.\par
So this, so 2 to the n, the size,\par
the number of n bit strings that there are\par
is going to be by the summation rule,\par
summation from I going from zero up to n,\par
of number of n bit strings with i1's,\par
and that number is n choose I,\par
so that's going to be summation,\par
I going from zero to n of n choose I.\par
And now, so this is a Combinatorial proof,\par
and there's also an Algebraic proof,\par
which we'll show in the next video.\par
So one clear application of this result,\par
of this identity,\par
is to count number of sequences with the sum property,\par
and this is an example of what we called at some point\par
thinking outside the circle,\par
so suppose that someone asks you\par
how many subsets of 1 up to n are there\par
of size at most n minus 1?\par
Then, as we know, it's also the same\par
as asking how many n bit sequences are there\par
with at most n minus 1 1's?\par
So for example for n equal to 3,\par
recounting these sequences\par
that have at most n minus 1,\par
and at most two 1's,\par
so it's 000, or 001, and so on,\par
and how many sequences are there?\par
Well there are, there's one sequence with zero 1's,\par
there's the three sequences with a single 1,\par
and three sequences with two 1's,\par
and the total number of sequences with at most two 1's\par
is therefore 1 plus 3 plus 3 which is 7.\par
So (speaks softly) there are two ways of counting\par
this number of n bit sequences with at most\par
n minus 1 1's.\par
One is using the same way that we did here,\par
namely, it's going to be summation\par
from I going from 0 to n minus 1, of n choose I,\par
that's what we did here.\par
This is 3 choose 0, plus 3 choose 1, plus 3 choose 2,\par
how many sequences have zero 1's,\par
one 1, put to n minus 1 1's?\par
So that's this calculation here.\par
But, we can also use the identity that we proved\par
in the previous slide,\par
that summation from I going from zero up to n\par
of n choose I is 2 to the n.\par
That just says that when you sum all sequences\par
with any number of 1's,\par
it should give you 2 to the n,\par
that's the total number of sequences of length n,\par
and that tells us that if you are just interested in\par
sequences of at most n minus 1 1's,\par
namely summation of I going to zero up to n minus 1,\par
of n choose I,\par
that's going to be the total sum,\par
so the sum all the way up to n,\par
minus the last term, minus n choose n,\par
because what we're interested in,\par
is just this sum up to n minus 1,\par
but if we add plus n choose n the last time\par
we'll get 2 to the n.\par
So it's 2 to the n minus the last term,\par
which is minus n choose n,\par
which is 2 to the n minus 1.\par
So another way of getting this number 7\par
would have been just 2 cubed minus 1,\par
which is 7, okay, so you get that.\par
Alright, so we are, talked about a couple properties\par
of the binomial coefficients,\par
and what we want to do next time\par
is continue with the Pascal Triangle,\par
and the binomial theorem,\par
which (speaks softly) is yet another property\par
of binomial coefficients.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
True or False: n choose k is equal to n-k choose k.\par
\par
\tab\par
True\par
\par
\tab\par
False\par
}
 