{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hi again.\par
So, so far we've talked about binomial coefficients,\par
we gave some examples how to calculate them,\par
and we also talked about a couple of the properties,\par
now we want to continue with some more properties,\par
and talk about the Pascal Triangle and the Binomial Theorem.\par
Okay, so first let's start with Pascal's identity\par
that says that n plus one choose k is\par
n choose k plus n choose k minus one.\par
And for example, four choose three,\par
if we take n to be equal to three,\par
and k to be equal to three,\par
then four choose three is equal to three choose three\par
plus three choose k minus one, namely plus three choose two.\par
Okay, and to see why that is so,\par
observe that four choose three denotes number of sequences\par
of length four with three ones.\par
So here we have all\par
binary sequences of length four with three ones,\par
and we can decompose this collection of sequences\par
into two subsets, into two smaller collection.\par
One where the last digit is, last bit is one, like this,\par
and one where the last bit is zero.\par
So we can write it as the collection of all binary sequences\par
of length four with three ones, where the last bit is zero,\par
and the collection of all binary sequences\par
of length four with three ones where the last bit is one.\par
So these two together, these two sets are disjoint,\par
and together they give us everything here,\par
because every sequence here has\par
length four with three ones,\par
and either the last bit is zero or the last bit is one.\par
So we just partitioned this set into two subsets,\par
and therefore the sum, this number of,\par
the number of elements here which is four plus,\par
which is three, sorry,\par
plus the number of elements here, which is one,\par
will give us four, which is the total of elements here.\par
So the only question is, how many elements we have here,\par
and how many elements we have here?\par
So how many elements we have here?\par
Well the last bit is zero, so that means that we have\par
three ones in the first three locations,\par
and the total number of such sequences is three choose three\par
because we have 3-bit sequences with three one\par
and there's three choose three,\par
and we, namely a single one sequence here,\par
so with three ones.\par
And how about this set, how many elements are here?\par
Well we have, we have all the,\par
all the strings here of flank four with three ones,\par
but we're using 1-bit here, so here we have,\par
this set corresponds to the collection\par
of 3-bit sequences with two ones.\par
So here we have the collection of 3-bit sequences\par
with two ones, and we just appended each of them with one.\par
So we're asking how many 3-bit sequences have two ones,\par
and that number is three choose two.\par
So we get that the collection of 4-bit sequences\par
with three ones, this collection here,\par
corresponds to the collection\par
of 3-bit sequences with three ones.\par
That's this collection here, which is three choose three,\par
plus the collection of 3-bit sequences with two ones,\par
namely three choose two, which is the number here.\par
And this will hold, sorry, this will hold in general,\par
if we consider binary sequences\par
of length n plus one with k ones,\par
then they'll consist of binary sequences\par
of length n plus one with k ones and zero at the end,\par
and that number is going to be n\par
for the first n location, choose k,\par
because we still have the same k ones,\par
plus the number of sequences of length n\par
with k minus one ones, and that's,\par
those will correspond to the sequences of length n,\par
with, where the last bit is one,\par
so we have k minus one ones in the first n locations,\par
and when you sum those up, you'll get n plus one choose k.\par
Okay, so this is Pascal's Identity,\par
and we can use it to create Pascal Triangle,\par
which is a way to calculate all the binomial coefficients,\par
again in a different recursive way.\par
So as we have seen n plus one choose k\par
is n choose k plus n choose k minus one.\par
So we can start writing the Pascal Triangle\par
by first writing, so this is going to be,\par
the rows will correspond to n,\par
and the columns will correspond to k.\par
And we know that n choose zero is one,\par
and that means that this first column is all ones.\par
Okay, so this is, for example,\par
five choose zero, which is one,\par
four choose zero, which is one.\par
And the first row will correspond\par
I'm sorry, the diagonal here will\par
correspond to n choose n.\par
So for example, this is zero choose zero,\par
this is one choose one, this is two choose two, and so on.\par
So n choose n is one, and therefore,\par
this corresponds to all ones.\par
And now when we want to use this identity,\par
and then for example,\par
if you want to calculate two choose one,\par
then according to this identity two choose one\par
is going to be one choose one plus one choose zero.\par
Okay, which we can draw here,\par
two choose one is one choose one plus one choose zero.\par
Okay, this is one choose one, this is one choose zero,\par
we have to add them up.\par
And then if you want to calculate three choose one,\par
it's going to be two choose one plus two choose zero,\par
so that's this number here, three choose one\par
is going to be two choose one plus two choose zero,\par
so it's two plus one, which is three.\par
And if you want to calculate three choose two,\par
by Pascal's Identity, he's going to be\par
two choose two plus two choose one, that's this number here,\par
it's three choose two, is two choose two\par
plus two choose one or one plus two, which is again three.\par
And if you want to calculate four choose one,\par
it's going to be three choose one plus three choose zero,\par
three plus one, which is four.\par
If we want to calculate four choose two,\par
it's going to be the sum of these two, which is six.\par
And this value here is going to be one plus three\par
which is four, and so on,\par
you get 5, then 4 plus one, 10,\par
6 plus 4, 10, 4 plus 6 and 5, one plus 4.\par
Okay, so this is a Pascal Triangle.\par
It shows in row n and column k,\par
it shows n choose k and also we have the recursive,\par
we have calculating it by having each element\par
as the sum of the element above it\par
and the element diagonally to the left of it,\par
up and to the left of it, okay?\par
So when you observe the Pascal Triangle,\par
it has many properties and here's one property\par
that is quite apparent.\par
So here is the Pascal Triangle again.\par
If we take a plus b and raise it to the first power,\par
a plus b to the one, we just get a plus b, okay?\par
If we take a plus b square,\par
we get a square plus two ab plus b square.\par
A plus b cube is a cube, plus three a square b,\par
plus three ab square plus b cube, and so on.\par
A plus b to the four?\par
A to the four, four a cube b,\par
six a square b square, and so on.\par
And when we look at those coefficients,\par
one one, one two one, one three three one,\par
one four six four one,\par
then they're exactly the same as we look at coefficiency.\par
One one, one two one, one three three one,\par
one four six four one, and so on.\par
In other words,\par
what this suggests is,\par
so and that the coefficient,\par
if we take, for example, a plus b to the four,\par
the coefficient of a to the four\par
is going to be four choose zero, which is one.\par
The coefficient of a cube b is going to be four,\par
which is four choose one.\par
The coefficients of a square b square\par
is going to be four choose two, which is six.\par
The coefficient of ab cube\par
is going to be four choose three.\par
The coefficient of b to the four\par
is going to be four choose four, which is one, okay?\par
And writing this out, it means\par
that if you take a plus b to the nth power,\par
it's going to be the summation of i going from zero up to n,\par
of n choose i, times a to the n minus i,\par
times b to the i.\par
In this case, a plus b to the four\par
is going to be four choose zero times a to the four,\par
b to the zero plus four choose one,\par
a cube times b to the one plus four choose two,\par
a square, plus a square b square, and so on.\par
In general, a plus b to the n,\par
again, summation i going from zero to n,\par
n choose i, a to the n minus i, times b to the i.\par
Okay?\par
So, this is what we get by observation\par
and we want to explain why this is the case, okay?\par
So in general, let's first repeat it.\par
We said that a plus b to the n is summation\par
of i going from zero to n of n choose i\par
times a to the n minus i, b to the i,\par
and that holds for every a and b, and every integer n,\par
which is bigger and equal to zero.\par
And this is actually quite important theorem,\par
what has many applications and for one thing,\par
it gives the binomial coefficients their name,\par
because what we have here are polynomials\par
with two variables, like a plus b to the n.\par
If you want, you can have a plus x to the n,\par
or x plus y to the n,\par
so we get a polynomial with two variables,\par
and polynomials set with two variables are called binomial.\par
And that's why this is called the Binomial Theorem,\par
and that's why these coefficients\par
are called binomial coefficients.\par
All right, so let's explain where\par
the Binomial Theorem comes about.\par
So let's look again at an example.\par
Suppose we take a plus b cube,\par
which is a plus b, times a plus b, times a plus b.\par
And then, notice that we have three factors,\par
each of them is the same, a plus b.\par
Now, when we factor things out,\par
we'll get a times a times a, or a cube,\par
plus a square b, plus aba, and so on up to bbb.\par
In fact, we'll get eight such terms, okay?\par
And each term we get by selecting\par
one of the a and b from each of these three factors, okay?\par
So we get a sum of terms and in fact, we have eight terms,\par
and each term is a product of a's and b's,\par
where one is selected from each of the three factors, okay?\par
So for example, aab we got\par
by selecting this a, and then this a and this b, okay?\par
So notice that in all of the terms,\par
they have, they consist of a's and b's, three in total,\par
and so the number of a's plus the number of b's is three,\par
because we have three factors,\par
and we chose one element from each, okay?\par
And furthermore, if we're going to group terms together,\par
so how many times we have a cube?\par
We have one.\par
How many times we have a square b?\par
We have here a square b, plus another a square b here,\par
plus another a square b here.\par
Okay, so we have three terms and we have three ab square,\par
this one, and from this one and that one,\par
and we have a single b cube.\par
And these numbers that we are looking at,\par
the numbers that multiply each term here,\par
what we want to show are the binomial coefficients, okay?\par
So how many terms are there with i b's?\par
That's the number of way of selecting i factors\par
out of the three factors that we have here.\par
So for example, here if we have,\par
if we want to see how many ways we can select,\par
how many terms that have a single b's.\par
Now remember, we need to choose either a or b here,\par
or a or b here, or a or b here.\par
And the number of ways of selecting a single b\par
is the number of ways of selecting one,\par
because we're looking at a single b,\par
out of the three terms here.\par
And if we consider the number of ways,\par
the number of terms that will give you ab square,\par
that will be the number of ways\par
of selecting two b's out of these three.\par
So two factors out of the three,\par
and that's going to be three choose two.\par
So the number, again, the number of terms with i b's\par
is the number of ways of selecting i factors\par
out of the three, which is three choose i, okay?\par
So for example, three a square b,\par
and then it's this one, or this one, or this one, okay?\par
And it corresponds to selecting either this b,\par
or this b or this be here, okay?\par
And this will tell us that this number\par
is going to be three choose zero.\par
Number of way of selecting zero b's\par
times a cube, plus three choose one,\par
and if we're just selecting a single b,\par
times a square b plus three choose two a b square,\par
plus three choose three b cube.\par
All right, and generally we get that,\par
so we just saw that a plus b cube is this term here.\par
And generally, which is summation i going to zero to three,\par
or three choose i, a to the three minus i, b to the i.\par
And similarly, if we have a plus b to the n,\par
it's going to be n choose zero times a to the n,\par
and that's how many ways we can select,\par
we have n terms, we need to select zero b's,\par
and here we have n terms, we need to select a single b,\par
that's n choose one.\par
Here we have again n terms,\par
we need to select n b's, and that's n choose n,\par
which we can write as summation i going from zero\par
up to n of n choose i, a to the n minus i, b to the i.\par
Okay, so this is if you want proof of the Binomial Theorem.\par
Okay, and now we want to see a couple of applications.\par
So remember that we said before the summation of n choose i\par
is two to the n and we proved it combinatorially\par
by saying this is a total number of sequences of length n,\par
and this counts the number of sequences\par
of length n with i ones, okay.\par
And we give a combinatorial proof\par
and which is basically what we have just said,\par
and if we want to give an algebraic proof,\par
then notice that two to the n, this number two to the n,\par
is one plus one to the n, and according to a formula,\par
it's going to be summation of n choose i,\par
i to the n, one to the n minus i times one to the i.\par
But one to the n minus i is one, and i to the n,\par
i to the i, one to the i is again one.\par
So we get that this is equal to summation of n choose i.\par
So that's a simple proof that two to the n\par
is equal to the summation of,\par
from i going from zero to n of n choose i, okay?\par
Another application of this theorem\par
is to find coefficients of polynomials.\par
So suppose we take one plus x to the n,\par
then by the Binomial Theorem,\par
it's going to be equal to summation i going from zero to n,\par
of n choose i, times x to the i,\par
and then one to the n minus i,\par
which is one, so we don't write it.\par
So it's summation of n to the i, x to the i.\par
And now we could ask what is, for example,\par
the coefficient of x square in one plus x to the seven?\par
So one plus x to the seven\par
is summation of i going from zero to seven,\par
or seven choose i, x to the i, that's what we said here.\par
Okay, and what is the coefficient of x square?\par
We need to look at the coefficient of x square here,\par
and that's going to be just seven choose two, okay?\par
And seven choose two is seven times six divided by two,\par
which is 21, and one could factor this out\par
and verify that the coefficient of x square is 21.\par
Similarly, what is the coefficient of x cube\par
in three plus two x to the five?\par
Well, we can write this using the Binomial Theorem,\par
three plus two x to the five is summation i going\par
from zero to five of five choose i,\par
three to the five minus i times two x to the i.\par
And we're interested in the coefficient of x cube,\par
so we're interested in what happens\par
when i is equal to three,\par
and when i is equal to three,\par
the coefficient is going to be five choose three\par
times three to the five minus three,\par
times three square and then times two cube.\par
So five choose three is the same as five choose two,\par
which is five times four divided by two,\par
which is 10,\par
and 10 times 9 times 8 is 720.\par
And one more application\par
is to show how we can use\par
the binomial coefficient to get\par
the Taylor expansion in place of e to the x.\par
So we know that e to the x is equal to\par
summation of i going from zero to infinity\par
of x to the i divided by i factorial,\par
and we want to derive this expansion,\par
not using Calculus but just using Combinatorics.\par
So notice that one definition of e to the x\par
is one plus x to the n over n.\par
For example e, one definition is one plus one\par
over n to the n, when n tends to infinity.\par
And e to the x, by the same reasoning,\par
is one plus x over n to the n.\par
So we can expand this using the Binomial Theorem,\par
so this is going to be equal to summation of n choose i\par
times x over n to the i,\par
and there's another terms one to the n minus i,\par
which we don't write because it's one.\par
So one plus x over n to the n,\par
therefore is equal to summation of n choose i\par
x over n to the i.\par
Now we can write, expand this out.\par
So n choose i is n to the i falling power,\par
remember that's n times n minus one,\par
and so on up to n minus i plus one,\par
or it's n divided by n minus i factorial.\par
And then when you divide by i factorial,\par
and times x over n to the i.\par
And we can just rearrange terms here,\par
so it's equal to x to the i divided by i factorial\par
times n to the i falling power, divided by n to the i.\par
So what we can do next is\par
see what happens when n goes to infinity, right?\par
Because we need to take the limit\par
of this as n goes to infinity.\par
So when n goes to infinity,\par
this will turn, as we said,\par
by definition, we'll take 10 to e to the x.\par
And how about the right side?\par
So we have here the summation of i going from zero to n\par
of x to the i divided by i factorial\par
times n to the i falling power, divided by n to the i.\par
But now let's see what happens to this term.\par
This terms will remain, okay,\par
but this term, n to the i falling power i,\par
n to the falling power i divided by n to the i\par
will just turn to one.\par
For example, if you take n to the second falling power,\par
we'll get n times n minus one divided by n factorial,\par
but the difference between n minus one and n,\par
I'm sorry, it'll be n times n minus one divided by n square,\par
but the difference between n minus one and n,\par
the ratio goes to one.\par
So this n to the i falling power n times n minus one\par
will be roughly the same as n square,\par
when you divide it will give you a one.\par
And if you, and to the third falling power,\par
we have n over n times n minus one over n,\par
n minus one over n will go to one,\par
times n minus two over n, again that goes to one.\par
So this will just become summation\par
of x to the i divided by i factorial.\par
And you just need to argue that you can\par
exchange the limit in the summation,\par
which you can in this case.\par
Okay, so we get that e to the x is\par
summation of x to the i, divided by i factorial,\par
which is the Taylor expansion,\par
and we got it from the binomial coefficients.\par
The last application of the Binomial Theorem\par
that I want to mention is for the Binomial Distribution.\par
We'll talk about the Binomial Distribution\par
in a few lectures from now but for now,\par
I just want to state the identity that we'll explain,\par
but will happen when we talk about this distribution.\par
So, so,\par
let's look at this summation,\par
summation from i going from zero to n of n choose i,\par
p to the n minus one times one minus p to the i.\par
Well, p is any number between zero and one.\par
Well, we know that by the Binomial Theorem\par
that this is going to be just\par
p plus one minus p raised to n, right?\par
Because this is summation of i going from zero to n\par
of n choose i, p to the n minus i\par
times one minus p to the i.\par
But p plus one minus p is one,\par
so that just gives us one to the n, which is one.\par
So we get that this summation is one.\par
For example, if we take\par
one cube plus two times 1/3\par
times 2/3 plus 2/3 square,\par
So that's an example of this,\par
where p is equal to 1/3,\par
1/3 and one minus p is equal to 2/3\par
and n is equal to two.\par
So, so we get that this summation\par
is going to be equal to one, right?\par
Because it's, in this case,\par
it's going to be two choose zero times 1/3 square\par
times one minus p to the zero plus two choose one,\par
which is two times 1/3 times 2/3\par
plus two choose two, which is one,\par
times 1/3 to the zero times 2/3 to the two\par
and that's going to be equal to one.\par
And we will use this identity\par
when we talk about the Binomial Distribution,\par
which is one of the reasons\par
why we're mentioning the Binomial Theorem.\par
So we'll talk about more then.\par
So with that, we talked about different quantities\par
of the binomial coefficients.\par
In other words, we talked about binary sequences\par
or choosing a set, subset from a set of size k,\par
and what we want to do next is\par
talk about larger alphabet sequence,\par
also for larger alphabets,\par
And that's what we'll do in the next lecture. See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
Given the polynomial, (2+4x)4, what is the coefficient of x2?\par
\par
\tab\par
272\par
\par
\tab\par
384\par
\par
\tab\par
1536\par
\par
\tab\par
3072\par
}
 