{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Hi again. So until now,\par
we talked about counting binary sequences.\par
Specifically, binary sequences of length n with k once.\par
And now we want to grow up a little bit\par
and instead of binary sequences, we're going to move\par
to sequences of a larger alphabets.\par
For example ternary sequences,\par
sequences of alphabet of size four or so.\par
And to do that we're going to use instead of binomials,\par
we're going to use multinomials, but don't worry\par
it's actually a very simple extension.\par
Okay, so going to talk about the multinomial coefficients,\par
which beyond binary, they apply for\par
ternary or larger alphabet.\par
Okay, so for example, if you're going to look at\par
ternary alphabets, then imagine that we have three numbers\par
k1 plus k2 plus k3, which together gives us n.\par
This extends what we had before where we had k1s\par
and minus k0. So now we have maybe k1s and k2s and k3s\par
and together, they give us the whole length\par
of the sequence, which is n.\par
So we're interested in a number of sequences\par
of one to threes, sequences with one, two, and three\par
of length n, with exactly these numbers:\par
k1 ones, k2 twos, and k3 threes.\par
And because of that, as we have said, these ki's have to\par
sum to n because of the sequence\par
all the n elements are going to be either\par
ones or two or threes.\par
And we ask how many such sequences are there?\par
So the number of such sequences, we can count it,\par
you can just apply the binomial theorem twice.\par
So we can say well, we need to choose the locations\par
of the ones, and we have n locations,\par
and we have to choose k1 ones.\par
So the number for us to do this is n choose k1,\par
that we have seen in the previous lectures.\par
And after we choose the location of the k1 ones,\par
we're left with n minus k1 locations, right?\par
And from those n minus k1 locations that are left,\par
we need to choose the locations of the k2 twos.\par
So we need to multiply it, so this k1's locations\par
of the ones, and then we have n minus k1 locations left\par
and we need to choose k2.\par
So this is k2 locations of the twos out of\par
the n minus k1's locations that are left.\par
Notice that once we choose those ones and twos,\par
then the locations of the threes are determined,\par
because we have k1 ones and k2 twos,\par
and then we're left with now n minus k1 minus k2 locations\par
but all of those have to be the k3 threes that are left.\par
So this is exact number. If you wanted to it multiply it\par
you could also multiply it by n minus k1 minus k2,\par
choose k3, but observe that n minus k1 minus k2 is k3.\par
So what you'd have is k3 choose k3 which is one.\par
So this is the total number. Again, we chose k1 locations\par
of the ones, that's n choose K1,\par
different ways of choosing those locations.\par
And then we're left with n minus k1 locations\par
for the twos and the threes, you need to choose\par
location like k2 twos. You have to do it in n minus k1,\par
just k2's ways. So when we multiply them\par
we've get a total number of ways of choosing the ones\par
and the twos, and that will determine the threes.\par
So now what we need to do is just write this out\par
as a product of factorials.\par
So this is equal to n factorial divided by\par
k1 factorial, n minus k1 factorial.\par
And then we need to multiply by this binomial coefficient,\par
which is n minus k1 factorial, divided by k2 factorial\par
and n minus k1 minus k2 factorial.\par
Okay, and we have some cancellations here\par
because we have here n minus k1 factorial,\par
it cancels with this. Okay, let's see.\par
And then we observe that n minus k1 minus k2 is just k3\par
because the ki's sub to n.\par
So that means that the total number is n factorial\par
divided by k1 factorial, k2 factorial, k3 factorial,\par
and we denote this by the multinomial coefficient\par
n choose k1, k2, k3.\par
So again, n choose k1, k2, k3 is the number\par
of sequences of length n, with k1 ones, k2 twos,\par
and k3 threes, nth equal to n factorial divided by\par
k1 factorial, k2 factorial, k3 factorial.\par
And you'll notice a couple things.\par
Notice how nicely it generalizes the binomial coefficient,\par
which was n factorial divided by k1 factorial\par
and k2 factorial. Okay, so now we just have this product\par
of the three, and you'll also notice that it's symmetric\par
with k1, k2, k3, because we would expect because it's just\par
a number of sequences with k1 ones, k2 twos, and k3 threes.\par
This is the multinomial coeeficient\par
and the only one thing I want to mention is that\par
we're using a slightly different notation\par
than we use for the binomial coefficients.\par
The binomial coefficients, we use n choose k,\par
but if we use the same convention here,\par
then we would denote it by n choose k and n minus k,\par
and it'll still be the same.\par
It would be n factorial divided by k factorial\par
and you can divide it by n minus k factorial.\par
So this is a different special case that for\par
binomial coefficients we just use this instead of\par
writing both the number of zeros and the number of ones.\par
As we said, these sum to n, as they would here.\par
Let's do a simple example, how many sequences are there\par
of one, two, three, four?\par
So instead of alphabet of size three,\par
we are looking alphabets of size four,\par
where digit one appears once.\par
The digit two appears twice. I'm sorry, four times.\par
The digit three appears four times also\par
and the digit four appears twice.\par
So the length is one plus four plus four plus two\par
which is 11.\par
And one example of such sequence is three, one,\par
two, two, two, three, three, four, two, four, three.\par
You can verify that one appears only once,\par
two appears four times, two, two, two and another two.\par
Three appeared four times and four appears twice.\par
Four appears here and here.\par
So the number of such sequences is 11\par
choose one, four, four, two,\par
which is 11 factorial divided by one factorial,\par
four factorial, four factorial, two factorial.\par
And to see how you get it,\par
what you do is 11 choose one,\par
the location of the single one,\par
and then, you'll be left with 10, so you'll do times 10,\par
choose four, to choose the location of the four twos.\par
And now we've used five, so instead of 11, you'd have seven.\par
I'm sorry, you'll have six. 11 minus five, six.\par
So you'll have times six, choose four, and once you do that\par
you'll determine the sequence\par
and when you cancel the terms that appear there,\par
you'll get 11 factorial divided by one factorial,\par
four factorial, four factorial, two factorial.\par
And you open up and you get 11 times 10 times\par
nine times eight and so on, times four factorial\par
and then divide by four factorial,\par
four factorial, two factorial.\par
And there's a lot of cancellations going on.\par
Four factorial cancels four factorial and then you get the\par
four and the two cancel with the eight, and so on.\par
And the six cancels and that gives you this number,\par
which is 34 thousand and 650.\par
Let's look at another application.\par
Let's look at the word Mississippi,\par
and the question is how many anagrams does Mississippi have?\par
And an anagram as we know is just a rearrangement\par
of these letters, and it could make sense\par
or not make sense.\par
So what are anagrams of Mississippi?\par
Those are just sequences over the letters M, I, S, P.\par
Sequences where the letters are M, I, S, and P\par
in any order, so what we have is that the letter M\par
appears once, as we see here.\par
The letter I appears four times.\par
The letter S appear four times and P appear twice.\par
And perhaps not surprisingly, these are exactly\par
the same numbers as we had in the previous slide,\par
so therefore the number of\par
anagrams of Mississippi is the same as number\par
of ways of writing sequences.\par
So for one, two, three and four, where one appears once,\par
two appears four times, and so on.\par
So it's exactly the same number, and the length is 11.\par
And one such anagram is this\par
and it's the same as what we have done before.\par
And so the number of ways of doing it is going to be\par
11 choose one number of ways to choose\par
the location of M, the number of ways to choose\par
location of the four I's, the four S's, and the two P's,\par
and that number, I apologize.\par
That number is going to be as before, 34 thousand and 650.\par
Let's do another example. Students in a class.\par
So suppose you have 10 students and they can take\par
a class that is given in three sections.\par
They can take it in the morning, in the afternoon,\par
or in the evening, and every student can take\par
any one class that they choose.\par
They can choose morning, afternoon\par
or evening, but there are no constraints.\par
So for example, if all of them want,\par
they can all take it in the evening.\par
So how many ways can the student take those classes?\par
Well, clearly, each student can decide whether they want\par
the morning, afternoon, or evening, and that's true\par
for the first student, the second student, so on.\par
So what we have is we have the contingent product.\par
We have the product of all the possibilities.\par
And so we said, any number of students in each class.\par
So the number is going to be three to the ten, right\par
because this first student can choose\par
one of the three classes, and the second student can choose\par
one of the three classes, and the number of possibilities\par
is going to be three times three and so on,\par
to get three to the ten.\par
Now, suppose we are looking at how many students,\par
we'll be interested in a number of ways\par
that the students can take the class if we insist\par
that six has to take the morning class,\par
three have to take the afternoon class,\par
and the remaining one student has to take the evening class.\par
So how many ways can we do that?\par
Well, now we have 10 students, and we need to\par
select six of them to take the morning class,\par
three of them to select the afternoon class,\par
and three to select the evening class.\par
So that number is going to be 10 choose six, three, one.\par
Morning, afternoon students, and that's 10 factorial\par
divided by six factorial, three factorial, one factorial,\par
which is\par
840.\par
This leads us in a natural way\par
to the multinomial theorem,\par
which generalizes the binomial theorem,\par
as we're going to see very soon.\par
The multinomial theorem says that if you take\par
now, instead of two terms, a plus b and raise it to the n,\par
if you take m terms, a1 plus a2 plus am to the n,\par
that's going to be equal, I apologize.\par
That's going to be equal to the summation of terms\par
of the following: The product of at to the kt\par
and the coefficient in front is going to be\par
the multinomial coefficient.\par
Coefficient n choose k1, k2, up to km.\par
So, as you remember, the binomial theorem\par
was pretty much the same. We had a plus b raise to the n,\par
it was going to be equal to the summation of a to the i,\par
b to the n minus i, like that.\par
And then we had the binomial coefficient here,\par
which was n choose i.\par
So this is just a generalization, and perhaps it's easier\par
to see if we look at raising three terms,\par
the sum of three terms, to the second power.\par
So a plus b plus c squared is going to be,\par
according to this theorem,\par
it's going to be summation of the multinomial coefficient,\par
two choose i, j, k times a to the i, b to the j, c to the k\par
over all i, j, k, that sum to two.\par
So this is going to be two choose\par
two zero zero times a squared,\par
plus two choose zero, two, zero times b squared,\par
plus two choose zero, zero, two, times c squared,\par
plus and then a, b, so we have to choose\par
location of the a and the location of the b.\par
In other words, the term we have a plus b plus c,\par
multiply three times and we choose which term\par
we chose the a from, which term we chose the b from.\par
So that's one, one and then zero for the c's,\par
and then plus two choose one, zero, one\par
for choosing the a and the c, and plus two\par
choose zero and one, choosing the terms\par
for which we take the b and the c. Okay, so we get that.\par
And when we open them up, we get that it's going to be\par
two choose two, zero, zero, is two factorial\par
divided by two factorial, which is one.\par
And this is again one, and this is again one,\par
and that corresponds to if we just choose a.\par
If we just choose a from both locations,\par
just we have to choose a from both here and from here.\par
And likewise, if you have b squared,\par
then we have to choose it from the first term\par
and from the second term.\par
On the other hand, if we look at a, b, then it could come\par
from choosing b from this location\par
the b from here and then a from here,\par
or we can choose a from this term and b from\par
the second factor.\par
So we have two ways of choosing a and b.\par
Okay, so you got that.\par
So this is the multinomial theorem\par
for n equals to two and three terms.\par
The other extension we want to talk about\par
is sum of multinomials.\par
So for the binomial coefficients, remember that we had\par
the two to the n is summation of n choose i,\par
i going from zero to n,\par
and for the multinomial coefficients, we'll have that\par
m to the n, which is one plus one to the n,\par
is going to be summation of n choose, as we just said,\par
k1, k2, up to km, that sum to n,\par
and all the product is going to be one.\par
So we get that m to the n is just\par
the summation of the multinomial coefficient.\par
So for binomial coefficient, you had\par
the two to the n is the sum of the binomial coefficient,\par
and for multinomial coefficients, we get that m to the n\par
is the sum of the multinomial coefficients,\par
with m choosing m terms here.\par
So for example, if we take three choose two,\par
m is three and n is two,\par
which is nine, that's going to be equal to the sum of all\par
the multinomial coefficients: two choose two, zero, zero\par
plus two choose zero, two, zero, and so on.\par
And you notice that these one and one and one\par
and these are two and two and two.\par
So we'll get three plus six, which indeed is nine.\par
Alright, so with this, we can go back\par
to the students in the class.\par
And you'll remember that we had, for simplicity,\par
let's say we have two students and they take three classes.\par
Then, the total number of ways they can take it\par
if there are no restrictions, is going to be\par
three choose two, which is nine.\par
If there are no restriction on how many students\par
take the morning, afternoon and evening class.\par
But if we break it by class, then how many ways\par
can they take it so that both students take\par
the morning class, that's this number here,\par
which is going to be one.\par
How many ways can the students take it, such that both\par
of them take the afternoon class, that's this number here.\par
Again, it's going to be one.\par
And in the evening class, or how many ways can they take it\par
so that the two students take it so that one takes\par
the morning class and one takes the afternoon class.\par
This number is going to be two, corresponding with\par
the first student taking the morning\par
and the second one taking the afternoon.\par
There are two ways, or this first one taking\par
the afternoon and the second student taking the morning.\par
There are two ways, and likewise\par
for the morning and evening and the afternoon and evening.\par
So this is going to be one plus one plus one\par
plus two plus two plus two, which gives us nine.\par
So that's another demonstration of the multinomial theorem.\par
Now we got three to the two is the summation\par
of all these coefficients.\par
So this is the same as the last slide.\par
Okay, so what we did here was we looked at\par
a simple extension of the binomial coefficients\par
to multinomial coefficients and the binomial theorem\par
to the multinomial theorem and what we're going to do next\par
is look at another application\par
of binomial and related coefficients.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
How many ways can you get three 4\rquote s and two 1\rquote s in 5 die rolls?\par
\par
\tab\par
5! / (3!2!)\par
\par
\tab\par
6! / (3!2!)\par
\par
\tab\par
5 / (3x2)\par
\par
\tab\par
6 / (3x2)\par
}
 