{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Welcome back.\par
So far, we've been talking about\par
different applications of combinatorics.\par
We've talked about permutations, about combinations,\par
the binomial coefficient,\par
and counting different things using them.\par
And today, we're going to talk about the last application\par
which is going to be a little different.\par
We're going to show that beyond combinatorics,\par
we can use what we have learned\par
to get some results from algebra,\par
and specifically to write a number as a sum of integers.\par
We're going to show that we can get a simple derivation\par
for might otherwise be an unintuitive result.\par
So we're looking at counting sums.\par
And specifically, we want to find a number of ways\par
to write five, for example,\par
as the sum of three positive integers when order matters.\par
So let's see what we mean.\par
We can write five as three plus one plus one,\par
or as two plus two plus one,\par
or as two plus one plus two,\par
or one plus three plus one,\par
or one plus two plus two, and so on.\par
And we can see that these are the only ways\par
to write five as a sum of three positive integers\par
because if we start with three,\par
we have to have one plus one.\par
If we start with two, then we have to have three.\par
And these are the only way to write three as a sum of two,\par
positive integers.\par
And if we start with one,\par
then we need to get a four with two integers\par
and these are the only ways to do that.\par
So we can see that the total number of ways of writing five\par
as the sum of three positive integers is six.\par
And we would like to derive this number six combinatorially.\par
So what we can do is we can show that this number of ways\par
is the same as number of ways\par
to partition five items into three groups\par
when the order matters.\par
OK, so we'll let our five items be five stars.\par
And when we write three plus one plus one,\par
that will correspond to partitioning this five stars\par
into three and then plus one and then plus one.\par
And two plus one plus one will correspond partition here\par
which has two stars plus two stars plus one star\par
in two plus one plus two.\par
Similarly, we have two stars plus one star plus two stars\par
and so on.\par
OK?\par
And we would like to use this analogy\par
to find the number of ways to write five\par
as a sum of three positive numbers.\par
So let's maybe reflect a little bit on the analogy.\par
So let's look here at what are the similarities\par
between the addition that we have here on the left\par
and the partition on the right.\par
So in the addition, we look at things that sum to five.\par
And similarly for the partition,\par
we look at five stars or five items.\par
We're partitioning five items.\par
Just like here, we're writing things that will sum to five.\par
For addition, we have three positive terms\par
and what we have here\par
is we have three consecutive star intervals.\par
So here we have an interval three stars,\par
an interval of one star, an interval of one star.\par
They have to have at least one star, OK?\par
And for addition, we have two pluses\par
because we have three terms, so we have two pluses\par
that separate the three numbers.\par
And here we have two bars that separate the intervals.\par
So these bars play the role of the pluses.\par
OK?\par
But there's something that we have in the partition\par
that we don't quite see in the addition,\par
and that is for the partition we see that we have four gaps.\par
So we have five stars.\par
We have four gaps between them.\par
One, two, three, four, where we can place the bars, OK?\par
And this does not quite exist\par
or we do not quite see it for the addition.\par
So we have five gaps between the stars.\par
I'm sorry, four gaps between the stars.\par
And in those four gaps,\par
we need to put the two bars that we have.\par
So we need to choose two of the four gaps\par
to put the bars in them.\par
And so the number of partitions,\par
the number of ways to partition this,\par
is going to be just a number of ways\par
to choose two gaps out of the four that we have\par
and that's going to be just choose two\par
which as we know is six.\par
So we see that we could get this number\par
by just looking at the number of spaces\par
or gaps that we have which was five minus one, four.\par
And the number of bars that we have\par
which was three minus one, or two.\par
And we have four choose two which is six\par
which is the number that we got here.\par
Now this of course generalizes,\par
and if we want to have K terms that will add to N,\par
then we would like to find how many ways we can write N\par
as a sum of K positive integers when order matters.\par
And so here we have N stars;\par
and therefore, we have N minus one gaps.\par
And we have K.\par
We want to write them as K (mumbling) terms\par
so we have K minus one bars.\par
They're correspond to the K minus one pluses, OK?\par
So what we want to do is we want to place K minus one bars\par
in N minus one gaps.\par
And the number to do that I just N minus one\par
which is K minus one, OK?\par
So this is the number of ways to write N\par
as a sum of K positive integers.\par
It's N minus one plus K minus one.\par
Alright, so let's do a couple of simple examples\par
just to make sure we agree with the formula that we had.\par
And just to remind us, it said that if you want to write N\par
as a sum of K positive integers when order matters\par
then we can do it as N minus one\par
choose K minus one ways.\par
So let's look at some simple values of K.\par
We'll look at the sums and this formula.\par
So if K is one, then we can write N in a single way\par
as the sum of one term.\par
Just N is equal to N, so there's only one term.\par
And sure enough, if we write N minus one\par
choose K minus one which is one minus one,\par
we'll get N minus one choose zero, which is one.\par
If we want to write N is the sum of N different terms,\par
positive N terms,\par
we have to write one plus one and so on plus one\par
so there's just one way of doing it.\par
And indeed, N minus one choose N minus one.\par
K here is N, so N minus one choose N minus one\par
is again one agreeing with this.\par
If you want to write N is the sum of two terms,\par
then we can write it as one plus N minus one\par
or two plus N minus two,\par
and so on after N minus one plus one.\par
So we have one, two, N minus one way of doing it.\par
And if we write N minus one choose two minus one,\par
it's N minus one choose one which is N minus one.\par
And last example, if we want to write N\par
as sum of N minus one terms,\par
then what we'll have is we'll have N minus one terms.\par
One of them will be two\par
and the remaining N minus two will be one,\par
so the two can appear at the beginning,\par
the second location, or the last location,\par
and there N minus one way of doing it, right?\par
'Cause we have N minus one terms,\par
so there are N minus one place to place to two.\par
And if we check N minus one choose N minus one minus one\par
is N minus one choose N minus two,\par
which is the same as N minus one choose one\par
which is N minus one again.\par
So we get that in all those cases,\par
this formula gave us what we expected.\par
And in fact, we can use this formula\par
even when this summation is not easy to find.\par
For example, if I ask you how many ways can you write eight\par
as a sum of four positive integers,\par
it might take you quite a bit of time\par
to find all the summations,\par
but you can use the formula and say it's eight minus one\par
choose four minus one which is seven choose three,\par
which is seven times six times five divided by six\par
which is 35.\par
OK? Easy.\par
And let's extend these results slightly.\par
So suppose you want to write N as any sum.\par
Namely, we want to find the number of ways we can write N\par
as a sum of any number of positive integers,\par
not a specific number K.\par
Then for example, we can N equal to three.\par
We can write it as three itself\par
or one plus two or two plus one,\par
or one plus one plus one,\par
and these are the only ways we can write three\par
as a sum of positive integers.\par
And we can draw an analogy again with bars and stars,\par
and we can see that the number is therefore four.\par
And if we want to look at stars,\par
then three will correspond to just three stars\par
not partitioned.\par
One plus two will correspond to this partition,\par
one and then two.\par
And two plus one will correspond\par
to this partition of the three stars.\par
And one plus one plus one\par
will correspond to the partition of the three stars\par
where each one is on its own, OK?\par
And we can see that the number of ways of writing these bars\par
is we have two spaces,\par
and we can either write no bars in the two spaces,\par
so we can have a bar in the left one\par
and no bar in the right one.\par
Or a bar in the right gap but not in the left gap.\par
Or bars in both gaps.\par
And so what we have is just a number of ways\par
to write any number of bars in those places.\par
So it's the number of, really, the number of,\par
if you want sequences of length, too, that we have, right?\par
This one would correspond maybe to zero zero.\par
This one would correspond to one zero, zero one,\par
and one one.\par
And this number is just two to the two\par
because we have the option of either putting a bar\par
in the first gap or not,\par
or the option of putting a bar in the second gap or not.\par
OK?\par
And this obviously generalizes to any N.\par
So if we have N stars, then in each gap\par
we can either put a bar or not put a bar.\par
We have two options for each gap,\par
so the total number of options that we have\par
is two to the number of gaps.\par
And we have N minus one gaps,\par
so therefore the number is two to the N minus one.\par
OK?\par
And you could have gotten this number like we did here\par
or you could be a little bit more macho if you wanted\par
and you could say, OK,\par
this is the number of ways to write N\par
as a sum of any number of positive integers, so I could add.\par
I could see how many ways I could write it\par
as the sum of one integer, two integers, and so on.\par
So we can write it N is the sum of K integers\par
where K goes from one up to N.\par
And we know from the previous slide\par
that that number to write it as some K integers\par
N minus one choose K minus one.\par
So we can say that this number\par
is going to be a summation of K going from one up to N,\par
of N minus one choose K minus one.\par
But now we see that K minus one starts at zero\par
and goes to N minus one,\par
so it's a summation of I going from zero to N minus one\par
of N minus one choose I.\par
And then by the binomial theorem,\par
this sum is just two to the N minus one,\par
agreeing with what we got here.\par
Now we want to modify the question slightly.\par
Instead of looking at positive terms,\par
we want to look at nonnegative terms.\par
So we want to ask how many ways we can write\par
N as the sum of K nonnegative integers.\par
OK, so for example, let's see how many ways we can write two\par
as the sum of three nonnegatives.\par
So we can write two as two plus zero plus zero.\par
That's three nonnegative integers that sum to two.\par
Or as zero plus two zero, or as zero plus zero plus two.\par
These are the only ways to write two\par
as a sum of three nonnegatives\par
where there's a single positive number.\par
Or we can write it as one plus one plus zero,\par
or one plus zero plus one, or zero plus one plus one, OK?\par
Now we can again use the stars and bars analogy,\par
and we see that, by the way, this number is going to be six.\par
OK.\par
Now using our analogy, we can write this as star star\par
and then bar bar.\par
That means that we have two.\par
Remember that the bar plays the role of a plus.\par
So we have two and then plus zero and then plus zero.\par
That's this sum.\par
And zero plus two plus zero, we can represent like that\par
so we have again zero plus two plus zero,\par
or zero plus zero plus two.\par
We have here zero plus zero plus two.\par
And here, one plus one plus one, and so on.\par
So what we see is that it's very similar\par
to what we had before.\par
Just like before, the number of stars we have\par
is the total number that we are trying to add to, is N.\par
And the number of bars we have is the number of pluses,\par
which is the number of terms minus one.\par
It's K minus one.\par
So we have K minus one bars.\par
But unlike before, before we put a single bar in each gap,\par
and here we can put multiple bars in a gap like this.\par
I can also put bars to the right\par
or to the left of the stars.\par
So now, we can have any arrangement of the stars and bars.\par
If you write any arrangement of two stars and two bars,\par
you can interpret it as a sum\par
of three terms that will add to two, right?\par
Because you'll have the number to the left of the first bar\par
plus the number in between\par
plus the number to right,\par
and that will give you two because you have two stars.\par
OK.\par
So therefore, we see that every sum\par
corresponds in a one to one way.\par
There's a one to one mapping\par
between a sum of here on the left\par
and an arrangement of stars and bars, OK?\par
Therefore, the number of sums that we have\par
is going to be the number of arrangement of stars and bars.\par
And more precisely, the number of arrangement in this case\par
of two stars and two bars.\par
OK.\par
So the number of sum\par
is the number of arrangements of stars and bars,\par
and we're interested in the number of ways to order\par
to write two stars and two bars in this case.\par
And if we have two stars and two bars,\par
what we have is a sequence of length four\par
and we need to choose the location of the two stars.\par
So there are a number of ways to do it.\par
There's four choose two which is six.\par
And more generally, if we want to write N\par
as a sum of K nonnegative integers.\par
So if we want to find a number of ways to write N\par
as a sum of K nonnegative integers when the order matters,\par
then we have again N stars and we have K bars,\par
and we rearrange them in any way we want\par
so we have a sequence with N stars and K minus one bars.\par
Or in other words, we have a sequence of length\par
N plus K minus one,\par
and we need to choose the location of the K minus one bars.\par
And that number is going to be N plus K minus one,\par
the length of the sequence, choose K minus one,\par
the number of bars we want to choose.\par
And that's the same as saying N plus K minus one choose N\par
if we want to choose the location of the bars.\par
That will be the same.\par
OK?\par
So let's look at an application of this.\par
So let's see how many four letter words are there,\par
but now when the order does not matter.\par
So if the order matters,\par
then the number of four letter words is going to be\par
just we have 26 ways to write the first letter,\par
and 26 ways to write the second letter, and so on.\par
We get 26 to the four which is almost half a million.\par
Now, if we want the number of four letter words\par
when the order does not matter.\par
So for example, if you want things like evil\par
to the same as vile to be the same as live and so on,\par
and words can also have repetition,\par
so doom will be the same as mood and so on,\par
the word or the number of words\par
is just determined by the composition.\par
So if I tell you number of As, number of Bs, number of Cs,\par
up to number of Cs,\par
that will determine this collection, right?\par
'Cause we don't care.\par
Once I tell you the number of times each letter appears,\par
then because order doesn't matter,\par
all words are going to be the same.\par
So what we really want to see\par
is how many such compositions we have,\par
how many ways we can have for deciding on number of As,\par
number of Bs, and so on,\par
such that together they'll sum to four\par
because the length of the sequence we want is four.\par
OK?\par
So the number of four letter words\par
when the order does not matter\par
is the number of ways to select the number of As,\par
the number of Bs, the number of Cs, and so on,\par
so that they sum to four.\par
And what we have here is just 26 nonnegative terms\par
correspond to the letters.\par
So K is 26 in our terminology.\par
And a sum to four, the length.\par
So N is equal to four.\par
And that number as we know is N plus K minus one.\par
So four plus 26 minus one, just K minus one, which is 25.\par
So it's 29 choose 25 or 29 choose 4,\par
and that's not so difficult to calculate.\par
It's exactly 23,751, OK?\par
And one thing that you may wonder\par
is whether this makes sense\par
that this number is going to be that much smaller\par
than the number of letters words when the order matters.\par
And you can see that most of the words\par
will have four different letters.\par
And if they have four different letters\par
and if the order doesn't matter,\par
then we just look at the number of words\par
and divide it by four factorial.\par
And so most of this 26 to the four words\par
will have four different letters,\par
and then we need to divide them by four factorial\par
to get the number of when the order does not matter.\par
And four factorial is 24.\par
And you can see that if you divide this by 24,\par
if you divide 456,000 by 24,\par
you'll get a number which is, I think, around 19,000.\par
And what we get here is a little more than 19,000,\par
and that's because we also have words\par
that contain three letters, and two letters,\par
and one letter, and so on.\par
So this makes sense.\par
OK?\par
And we can see a couple more applications.\par
I want to finish with them.\par
But talk about them a little more briefly.\par
So first of all,\par
you'll notice that we derived the number of ways\par
to write N as a sum of K positive integers.\par
We said it was N minus one choose K minus one.\par
And we can derive that number\par
using the formula that we just had for nonnegative numbers,\par
and that's because if you have K positive integers\par
that add to N, the number of such sums\par
of K positive integers that add to N\par
is the same as the number of K positive integers\par
that add to N minus K.\par
And the reason is that if you have K integers\par
that add to N, for example, to seven,\par
we can subtract one from each number here.\par
So instead of one plus two plus one plus three,\par
we're going to have zero plus one plus zero plus two.\par
And when we do that,\par
we subtracted one from each of the K terms,\par
the three or four,\par
so they'll add not to seven, but to seven minus four\par
which is three.\par
And you can map every sequence of K positive integers\par
that add to N by subtracting one from each number.\par
You'll get a sequence of K nonnegative integers\par
that will add instead of N, to N minus K.\par
This correspondence is a one to one correspondence,\par
so therefore the number of ways\par
to write K positive integers that add to N\par
is the same as the number of ways\par
to write K nonnegative integers that add to N minus K,\par
and that number is, as we just saw,\par
is N minus K plus K minus one which is K minus one.\par
And these Ks will cancel,\par
will give us N minus one choose K minus one\par
which will recover the formula that we got initially.\par
Also, if we can derive the number from nonnegative integers\par
that add to, instead of N, that add to at most N.\par
And the reason is because the number of K nonnegative sums\par
that add to at most N\par
is equal to the number of K plus one nonnegative sum\par
that add exactly N.\par
That's right in here behind my picture.\par
To exactly N.\par
And to see that, notice that for example if we have here\par
a sum of three terms that add to less than equal to seven,\par
two plus zero plus three.\par
That adds to five which is less than seven.\par
Then we can map it to a sum that will add to exactly seven\par
by adding a number here which is at least zero.\par
It will be zero if the number added to seven initially.\par
And again, this mapping is one to one.\par
I can map every sequence here\par
to a sequence here in a unique way\par
by just adding the number that's missing to make it seven.\par
And in general, if we have K nonnegative integers\par
that add to at most N, I can map it to K plus one,\par
nonnegative integers that add to exactly N.\par
And so the numbers are the same,\par
and therefore, the number is going to be N plus,\par
instead of K, we have K plus one terms.\par
So it's N plus K plus one minus one\par
which is K plus one minus one.\par
And that gives us the simple formula of N plus K choose K.\par
And you can verify it if you'd like\par
for some simple values.\par
OK?\par
So with that, we're done talking about stars and bars\par
and what I think is a fairly nice application\par
of binomial coefficients.\par
And so we discuss our final application,\par
that shows that beyond combinatorics,\par
we can apply to other fields like algebra,\par
and derive a simple derivation\par
of what otherwise might seem like an unintuitive result.\par
And with this, we are also done\par
talking about the combinatorics.\par
And what we'll do next\par
is we'll start talking about probability.\par
See you next time.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
How many different ways can you write 11 as a sum of positive integers?\par
\par
\tab\par
121\par
\par
\tab\par
336\par
\par
\tab\par
1024\par
\par
\tab\par
2048\par
}
 