{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello and welcome back.\par
In the previous lecture,\par
we talked about disjoint unions,\par
and now we would like to find the size of general units.\par
I will show that it's actually doing that is a piece of PIE.\par
And so we'll talk about\par
how to cover the size of general unions,\par
we'll discuss the principle of inclusion-exclusion,\par
we'll talk about how to find the size of multiple sets,\par
but we want to start with the hairy problem\par
that we presented in the end of the last lecture, okay?\par
So just to remind ourselves,\par
you have a friend who says that she can determine\par
the size of any set instantly and exactly.\par
She says that she can therefore also tell\par
the exact number of hairs that you have on your head.\par
And we wondered if there are a couple of questions\par
you can ask her\par
and be fairly certain that she tells the truth.\par
And we gave a small hint.\par
Okay, so we'll provide a very simple solution\par
that perhaps not surprisingly uses the subtraction rule.\par
So what you can do is you can ask her two questions.\par
First you ask her how many hairs you have, okay?\par
And then after she gives you the answer,\par
you go someplace where she doesn't see\par
and you remove a small number of hairs,\par
let's say eight, from your head,\par
and then you come back,\par
and you ask her how many hairs do you have now, okay?\par
Now, if she's...\par
By the subtraction rule,\par
the difference between her first and second answer\par
should be the number of hairs you removed, right?\par
Because initially she had the total number of hair\par
that you had\par
and then the number of hairs you had after the,\par
you removed those eight,\par
and then using the subtraction rule,\par
the size of A minus B\par
is just the difference between the size of A\par
minus the size of B,\par
which should be eight, okay?\par
Now, if she gave you the number eight,\par
if the difference between those two answer is eight,\par
two answers is eight,\par
then you're fairly certain that she knows\par
what she is talking about.\par
Whereas if she gives you any,\par
the difference is any number different than eight,\par
then you know for sure that she made at least one mistake\par
and probably was wrong both times, okay?\par
So that was pretty easy.\par
Now, can you ask her a single question\par
and be fairly certain that she knows\par
how many hairs you have,\par
that she can tell how many hairs you have?\par
Well, you can,\par
because you don't need to ask her about\par
the number of hairs you had at the beginning\par
and the number of hairs you had at the end.\par
You can just do,\par
make her do the math for you,\par
and you can just ask her how many hairs you removed.\par
And if her answer is eight,\par
then you know she is telling the truth, probably,\par
and if her answer is not eight,\par
then you know for sure that she is not telling the truth.\par
And this may look like a silly puzzle,\par
but in fact it's used\par
for something called zero-knowledge proofs,\par
where you want a person to prove their identity\par
without revealing more information about themselves\par
or what they know.\par
So, for example, here,\par
she only reveals that she knows the difference\par
between the number of hairs,\par
but she doesn't give you any information\par
about how many hairs you had before\par
or how many hairs you had afterwards.\par
So you can do this, like, if you want to,\par
say, if someone knows a password,\par
you ask them a certain question,\par
they can show you that they know the password\par
without telling you what the password is.\par
All right, so now let's go to the, our main topic,\par
which is general unions.\par
So for disjoint sets A and B,\par
we saw that if the two sets are disjoint,\par
which we denote like that,\par
then the size of A union B is the sum of their two sizes,\par
and like that and something.\par
And in, but in general,\par
the size of A union B\par
is not the size of A plus the size of B.\par
For example,\par
take the set a union with itself.\par
That gives you just the set a again, okay?\par
And therefore the size of the union of a and a\par
is the size of just the set a, and, which is one.\par
But this is not equal to two,\par
which is the size of a plus the size of a.\par
So here we see that the size of the union is one,\par
is different from the size of the,\par
from the sum of the sizes, which is two.\par
And that's because a and a are not disjoint.\par
They intersect, okay?\par
So the question is can we determine\par
the size of A union B in general?\par
And the answer is yes.\par
Because if we take the set A\par
and we add to it a set B,\par
then if we add the numbers,\par
the numbers, size A plus the size B,\par
then what happens is we count every element here once,\par
every element here once,\par
but every element in the intersection we count twice, okay?\par
So these are counted twice.\par
So we want it to count every element in each region once,\par
here once, here once, and here once.\par
So what we need to do is subtract the number of elements\par
that we counted twice.\par
So the size of A union B is therefore\par
the size of A plus the size of B\par
minus the size of the intersection, okay?\par
And this is called the principle of inclusion-exclusion,\par
or PIE, okay?\par
Which we'll denote like that.\par
So we have two sets here that intersect.\par
All right, so here is another example.\par
So here is a Squirtle\par
and here is Krabby,\par
and both of them are water Pokemons,\par
and here is Pidgey,\par
and he is a flying Pokemon.\par
And here is Gyrados,\par
and he is both a water and a flying Pokemon.\par
Now, suppose we want to know\par
how many Pokemons we have here altogether.\par
So, true, we can count,\par
one, two, three, four,\par
but, you know, that's maybe too easy,\par
or maybe it's more than the three\par
that we would like to count.\par
So what we can do instead is use\par
the inclusion-exclusion principle.\par
And we can say that the size of W,\par
the set of water Pokemon,\par
union the set of flying Pokemon,\par
so that's what we're trying to count,\par
the size of the union of these two sets\par
is the size of W plus the size of F\par
minus the size of W intersection F,\par
water intersection flying.\par
Now, the number of water Pokemons,\par
as we can see here, is three,\par
and the number of flying Pokemon that we have,\par
as we can see here, is two,\par
and the number of both water and flying Pokemons is one,\par
so therefore the size of the union is going to be\par
three plus two minus one, which is four,\par
again, as we found out initially, it worked.\par
So that works here, as well, right?\par
Now let's do a slightly more complicated example.\par
Let's look at divisibility by two numbers.\par
So we've looked at divisibility by one number.\par
We want to look at divisibility by two.\par
So suppose that we let D two union three\par
be the set of integers between one and 100\par
that are divisible by two or by three.\par
So this consists of the elements not one,\par
because it's not divisible by two or by three.\par
It consists of two,\par
because it's divisible by two,\par
three, it's divisible by three,\par
four, divisible by two,\par
six, divisible both of them,\par
and so on up to 100,\par
which is divisible by two, okay?\par
So the question is how many elements are here, okay?\par
And we can see that we're going to...\par
It's going to be relatively easy to solve,\par
answer these question\par
using the inclusion-exclusion principle.\par
So we'll let D2 be the set of all integers\par
between one and 100 that are divisible by two,\par
and that's the numbers two, four, six, up to 100.\par
And so here are those showing here in the Venn diagram.\par
And we'll let D3 be the set of all integers between 100,\par
one and 100 that are divisible by three.\par
And these are three, six, nine, and so on, up to 99,\par
and they are depicted here, okay?\par
And so we know that D of two union three,\par
the set of the numbers that are divisible by two or three,\par
is going to be D2 union D3, right?\par
Because every element here is divisible\par
by either two or three or both, okay?\par
And so this is the whole set\par
whose size we're trying to determine.\par
Now, by the inclusion-inclusion principle,\par
by the PIE principle,\par
we know that the size of D2 union D3\par
is the size of D2 plus the size of D3\par
minus the size of the intersection.\par
And the size of D2, as we calculated before,\par
is going to be 50, 100 divided by two.\par
And the size of D3 is going to be 100 divided by three,\par
thereof which is 33, okay?\par
And the size of D2 intersection D3 is the set,\par
so D2 intersection D3 is the set of all integers\par
between one and 100\par
that are divisible both by two and by three,\par
and that's the set of all integers between one and 100\par
that are divisible by six,\par
because if a number is divisible by both two and three,\par
it must be divisible by six and vice versa, okay?\par
And the size of the set is therefore 100 divided by six,\par
therefore of that, which is 16.\par
So that tells us that the number of integers\par
divisible by two or three is going to be\par
the size of D2 plus the size of D3\par
minus the size of the intersection,\par
which is 50 plus 33 minus 16,\par
which is 67.\par
So moving from two to more sets.\par
We know that for two sets,\par
by the principle of inclusion-exclusion,\par
the size of A union B is the size of A plus the size of B\par
minus the size of their intersection.\par
When we get three sets,\par
the size of A union B union C\par
is going to be the sum of the individual sets,\par
as we had before,\par
minus the sum of their pairwise intersections,\par
again, as we had before,\par
but now there are more of them,\par
plus the size of the threewise intersection here, okay?\par
Now, to see that,\par
let's look at a Venn diagram.\par
So here are the sets A, B, and C,\par
and we want to calculate the size of the union\par
and the total number of elements in all three sets.\par
So when we take the size of A,\par
we're counting every element in this region once,\par
every element in this region once,\par
here once and here once.\par
When we add the number of elements in B,\par
what we're doing is we're adding the elements\par
here once and here once and here once and here once.\par
And you notice that the elements here were counted twice\par
and elements here were counted twice again.\par
And when we add C,\par
that, then what we do is we add elements\par
here, here, here, and here once,\par
and what we see is that elements in this,\par
in these regions here were counted once,\par
but elements in the pairwise intersection here and here\par
were counted twice,\par
and the element in the threewise intersection\par
were counted three times.\par
So what we need to do is we need to\par
not double count here and here\par
and not triple count here.\par
So what we'll do is we'll count,\par
we'll subtract the number of elements in this intersection,\par
the number of elements in this intersection, and so on.\par
So we subtract the number of elements in A intersection B,\par
and when we do that,\par
we're going to reduce these numbers by,\par
these counts by one, okay?\par
So we reduce one from here and one from here.\par
And then we subtract the intersection of A and C,\par
so we subtract now here,\par
subtract this one and this one,\par
and then we subtract the intersection of B and C,\par
so what we do is we subtract these numbers once.\par
And then what we see is that now we counted this element,\par
the elements here once and here once and here once,\par
but the elements here, we added them first three times\par
for A, B, and C,\par
and then we're subtracting them three times\par
for the three pairwise intersection,\par
so we're actually not counting them at all.\par
So what we need to do is we need to add them again,\par
so we add the size of the threewise intersection\par
A intersection B intersection C,\par
and when we do that, we get one here,\par
and so we counted everything once, okay?\par
So we see that the size of A union B union C\par
is this formula.\par
We have the size of the individual sets\par
minus the size of this pairwise intersection\par
plus the size of the threewise intersection.\par
And this formula generalizes to more than three sets.\par
So if you have n sets,\par
the size of the union of n sets A1 up to An\par
is going to be the summation of the sizes\par
of the individual sets\par
minus the summation of the sizes\par
of the pairwise intersections\par
and then plus the summation of the threewise intersections\par
and so on.\par
You'll have an alternating sum until, in the end,\par
you get plus or minus the size\par
of the intersection of all sets.\par
And if n is even,\par
then this number will be negative,\par
and if n, just like it was here, is even,\par
it ends with a negative sign,\par
and if n is odd,\par
then this number will be added\par
and this will be a plus one,\par
like here, you'll be adding the last intersection.\par
All right, so to see, like, a small application of this,\par
consider a class that has eight students,\par
and each of them speaks C, R, or Python, okay?\par
And what we mean by that\par
is that they can speak or program C.\par
They may be able to program other languages.\par
But there are eight students programming C\par
and possibly other languages and so on, okay?\par
And since we have Python,\par
clearly we want, we know we're going to use the PIE,\par
the principle of inclusion-exclusion.\par
So what we want to,\par
so we'll let C denote the set of students\par
that can program in C,\par
R the set of students that can program in R,\par
and pi the set of students that can program in Python.\par
And we're interested in the size\par
of this union C union R union pi.\par
And, I'm sorry,\par
we know that the size of C union R union pi is eight, okay?\par
And we're also told that each student,\par
each language is spoken by five students, okay?\par
So that tells us that the size of C,\par
the number of students that can program in C\par
and potentially other languages, as well, is five,\par
and the same as the size of students\par
who can program in R and in Python.\par
And furthermore,\par
we're told that every language pair\par
is spoken by three students.\par
So the size of C intersection R,\par
all these intersection have size three.\par
And we ask how many students can speak\par
or can program in all three languages, okay?\par
So given this information,\par
we ask how many students can program in three languages?\par
So you'll notice that this is\par
a slightly different application of the inclusion-exclusion.\par
We're not asking what is the size of the union,\par
but here we're given the size of the union\par
and the various intersection,\par
and we're just asking what is the size of, like,\par
the three intersection, right?\par
So that's what we want to know,\par
and we're going to draw the Venn diagram,\par
as shown here.\par
And so what we know is, for example,\par
is that the number of students\par
who can program in C is five, okay?\par
And likewise, the number of students\par
who can program in R is also gonna be five,\par
and Python.\par
And we're told that the number of students\par
who program in C and R is three,\par
and the number of students who program in all of them\par
is what we want to find out, okay?\par
So what we can do is\par
we can write the inclusion-exclusion principle\par
that tells us that the size of C union R union pi\par
is the sum of the individual sets\par
minus the sum of the pairwise intersections\par
plus the sum of the three-way intersection, that, okay?\par
And we know almost all the numbers here.\par
We know that the size of the union is eight.\par
We know these individual sizes are five each,\par
and we know that the intersections,\par
pairwise intersections are three each.\par
And then we are going to add the size of the three-way,\par
threewise intersection,\par
which is what we want to find out, okay?\par
So we can just move things to the other side\par
and we get the size of the intersection\par
or the question mark that we have\par
is going to be equal to eight minus three fives\par
plus three threes, okay?\par
And that's going to be eight plus nine, which is 17,\par
minus 15, which is two, okay?\par
So going back to the picture here,\par
we've figured out that this size is two,\par
and now we can calculate the different sizes.\par
If you ask, for example,\par
how many students can program in C and R but not in Python,\par
that's this region here,\par
which is going to be three minus two, which is one.\par
So this is one,\par
and likewise these numbers are one.\par
And then if you want to know how many students\par
can program in C but not in R or Python,\par
that's this area here,\par
and that's going to be five minus four,\par
which is again one, okay?\par
So we can do that.\par
All right.\par
Okay, so let's do a couple of sanity checks.\par
So we want to compare the principle of inclusion-exclusion\par
to some expected outcomes.\par
So if A and B are disjoint,\par
then the size of a union B.\par
Well, we know that if they're disjoint,\par
then the size of A union B is going to be\par
just the size of A plus the size of B,\par
and we want to see if the inclusion-exclusion principle\par
gives it to us.\par
So by the PIE, by the principle of inclusion-exclusion,\par
it's the size of A plus the size of B\par
minus the size of the intersection,\par
but the size of the intersection is zero\par
because they're disjoint,\par
so it's just the size of A plus the size of B,\par
as we expected.\par
If you take two equal sets,\par
take the union,\par
so if you take A union A and ask what is the size,\par
we know it should be the size of A,\par
and we wanna see if inclusion-exclusion gives that to us.\par
So by inclusion-exclusion,\par
it's the size of A plus the size of A\par
minus the size of the intersection,\par
where the size of the intersection of A and A\par
is the size of A.\par
So we get the size of A plus the size of A\par
minus the size of A,\par
which is just the size of A again.\par
So again, it agrees with our intuition.\par
If we take general unions,\par
then we can see that the size of the union\par
is at least the maximum of the size of A and B,\par
and you can see it from the inclusion-exclusion.\par
For example, here it's going to be the size of A\par
plus the size of B minus the size of the intersection.\par
This difference here is going to be no negative,\par
so it's bigger than the size of A.\par
Likewise, it's the size of B plus the size of A\par
minus the size of the intersection.\par
The size of A minus the size of the intersection\par
is no negative.\par
So it's bigger than the size of B,\par
so therefore it's bigger than the maximum of the two sizes.\par
And you also see that it's going to be,\par
and you get equality if and only if they are nested\par
and if A is containing B or B is containing A.\par
You can verify that.\par
And we see that the size of A union B\par
is at most the size of A plus the size of B,\par
and again we get that because it's the size of A\par
plus the size of B minus some number,\par
so it's going to be less than or equal\par
to the size of A plus the size of B.\par
And we've got equality here if and only if\par
the size of A intersection B is zero, okay?\par
So we get equality if and only if they are disjoint, okay?\par
And maybe the most important sanity check,\par
so this also agree,\par
and for the most important sanity check,\par
let's go back to, you know,\par
maybe the founding father of philosophy, Aristotle.\par
He told us that the whole is more than the sum of the parts.\par
So let's just verify that this is correct.\par
And is it?\par
No, because we know that the size of the union,\par
if we take the whole,\par
it's the union of parts,\par
and the size of the union, as we just said,\par
is less than or equal to the sum of its parts.\par
So this shows you that Aristotle was a great philosopher,\par
but maybe he,\par
maybe he didn't know about\par
the principle of inclusion-exclusion.\par
All right, so to summarize,\par
we talked about a solution to the hairy problem,\par
we talked about the size of a general union,\par
and the principle of inclusion-exclusion,\par
we talked about how to cover the size\par
of a union of multiple sets,\par
and next time we're gonna talk about Cartesian products.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
If they are disjoint, A union B equals\par
\par
\tab\par
Size of A + Size of B\par
\par
\tab\par
The Intersection of A and B\par
}
 