{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Hello, and welcome back.\par
In the last lecture, we talked about Cartesian products\par
and today we want to talk about Cartesian Powers.\par
So we have shown an analogy between number operations\par
and set operations.\par
For example, we said that number addition corresponds to\par
union of disjoint sets.\par
We said that numbers subtraction corresponds to\par
complement sets;\par
and that multiplication corresponds to Cartesian product.\par
And an actual question is, What do exponents correspond to?\par
And that is what we will discuss in this lecture.\par
We are going to talk about Cartesian Powers of a Set.\par
And a Cartesian power of a set with itself, Cartesian\par
product, I'm sorry, of a set with itself is called\par
a Cartesian power.\par
For example, for A square is A times A;\par
and that's Cartesian square.\par
And A to the n,\par
if A is a set,\par
A to n is a Cartesian product of itself,\par
and times and that's called n'th Cartesian power of A.\par
And the size of A to the n is the size of the Cartesian\par
product A with itself, A times.\par
As we have said in the previous video, by the product rule\par
is just the size of A times the size of A times the size of\par
A which is the size of A to the n'th power.\par
This simple formula has simple practical and theoretical\par
applications, we will go over a couple.\par
Let's talk about license plates in California.\par
Turns out that until 1904, you did not have to register\par
your car.\par
You could just drive it, no problem.\par
In 1905, registration started being required and they\par
had various registration formats, different formats\par
for the license plates.\par
Interestingly, they had a one-time registration fee of\par
two dollars which makes sense because registration is\par
something you only do one-time a year.\par
In 1913, they started standardizing the license plates and\par
they looked something like this or like that and\par
basically they had, at most, six digits.\par
So assuming that all numbers with one,\par
one digit,\par
and so on is possible starting\par
from zero to the full six digits.\par
Nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, then the total number of\par
license plates was going to be 10 to the sixth which\par
is one million and again this is assuming that all numbers\par
are possible.\par
In 1956, they started running out of\par
license plates, and what they did was\par
they decided to have, instead of\par
six digits, they decided to have three letters and\par
three digits.\par
Like that or like that.\par
They changed the looks but they kept the format, at\par
some point, and that gives us 26 cube possibilities\par
for the letters times 10 cube for the numbers.\par
I am using the product rule here, maybe a few times for\par
26 cube to find how many here and then, 10 cube to find\par
here and multiply because you can choose any sequence of\par
letters and digits.\par
So this gives you up to 17.6 million.\par
In 1969, they were running out of numbers, again.\par
So, they added another digit, which looks like that.\par
And later on, they changed it like that\par
with the same format.\par
And that gave them a factor of 10 more so now the number is\par
roughly 176 million.\par
This is, again, using the product rule.\par
You may wonder why they use Sam so much and the\par
reasonable guess is that, maybe it is because\par
this guy shown here in the back.\par
Uncle Sam, maybe.\par
In fact, this is California and\par
Uncle Sam is, you know, kinda liked but\par
you know with some reservations.\par
The truth is that isn't not because of our Uncle Sam but\par
because it stands for sample.\par
This is another way that they demonstrate license plates.\par
Now as we said Cartesian powers have many applications.\par
Here is one: Binary Strings.\par
If we take zero, one to the n, so zero one Cartesian\par
product with itself n times, it's the set of all length\par
n binary strings or in other words, n-bit strings.\par
Here is an example, zero one to the one is\par
just zero and one.\par
Zero one square is zero zero, zero one, one zero, one one,\par
as you can see is zero one square.\par
Zero one cube is the set of all three n-bit strings,\par
like that and so one.\par
Notice that zero one to zero is just an empty string.\par
This one here and what we see is that\par
we can view it with this as each of those is,\par
if you want, in this case\par
a two tuple or three tuples will just meet\par
at the parenthesis and the commas as we said when\par
we talked about Cartesian products.\par
You can also visual it so this is zero one to the one.\par
This is zero one square, Cartesian square.\par
This is the Cartesian cube of zero one, like that, and\par
the size of zero one to the n is just the size of\par
zero one raised to the n'th power.\par
The size of zero one is two raised to the n, so\par
it's two to the n'th.\par
The sizes are of zero one to the one is two to the one,\par
which is two.\par
Two to the two is four to cube up to two to the n.\par
Another example of Cartesian products are Subsets.\par
The power set of S, denoted by this P of S, and\par
sometimes by 2 to the s, as we will mention, is the\par
collection of all subsets of set S.\par
For example, the power set of a,b is the set, the\par
empty set, the set consisting of a, the set consisting of b,\par
and the set consisting of a,b.\par
All those subsets.\par
If you are interested in the cardinality or the number of\par
subsets that S may have.\par
We can see that one to one correspondence between the\par
powerset of S and zero one to the S, the set of all\par
strings of length, the binary strings of length the\par
size of S.\par
This is all subsets of S and this is the Binary strings\par
of length of cardinality of S.\par
To see that, let's see an example.\par
Let's look at the power set of a,b or subsets of a, b and\par
zero one square so here all subsets of a,b.\par
The empty set, the set of just b, the set of just a, and\par
set a,b.\par
We can map each of those subsets to a Binary string of\par
length too.\par
For example, this set does not contain, does not contain a\par
and does not contain b so it will be denoted by zero, zero\par
meaning it does not contain a, does not contain b.\par
This set b does not contain a and contains b which\par
denotes zero because it does not contain a, followed by one\par
because it does contain b.\par
The set a will denote by one zero because it contains a but\par
not b.\par
The set a,b contains a and b so you can see that we have\par
here one to one correspondence between subsets of a and b\par
and all Binary strings of length too.\par
That tells us the cardinality of the power set of S is the\par
same cardinality of zero one raised to the length of S.\par
This set here is zero one to the two which is two to the\par
size of S.\par
So the size of the power set is the power of the set size.\par
In fact, its the two power of the set two size raised to the\par
set size.\par
Here is another example, functions.\par
Recall that a function from A to B maps every element of\par
a and A to an element f of a and B.\par
To define, remember that to define a function f:\par
we need to specify f of a for every a and A.\par
For example, if you look at function f, functions from one\par
to three to the letters p, u.\par
Then you need to specify f of one, f of two, and f of three.\par
For example, can specify if f of one is p, f of two is u,\par
and f of three is p.\par
We can see that f , function f, is just a three tuple that\par
specifies f of one, f of two, f of three.\par
In this case, it's going to be p ,u, p.\par
This function is p, u, p and if we had a function that\par
maps all of them to u that would be just a triple u, u, u.\par
The set of four functions from one two three to p, u is\par
the same as the Cartesian product, p,u times p, u times\par
p,u because we need to specify one element for f of one,\par
one element for f of two and one element for f of three.\par
We just have a three tuple and the collection of\par
all functions is this Cartesian product.\par
Therefore the number functions from one two three to\par
p,u is the size of this Cartesian product\par
which is going to be the size of this set\par
two times two times two\par
which is two cube which is eight.\par
Now, in general, if you're interested in the number of\par
functions from set A to set B then\par
it's going to be the size of\par
Cartesian product b times b times b, a times because\par
we need to specify f of, for every element of A, we\par
need to specify its image in B so we have one image in\par
B here for the first element, f of the second element,\par
and so on.\par
So it's this size which is the size of B raised which\par
is the set is B raised to the size of A.\par
The number functions to B is the cardinality of this set.\par
The cardinality of B raised to the size of A which is the\par
cardinality of B raised to the cardinality of A.\par
This is another application of the size of Cartesian powers.\par
Again, we use the product rule.\par
Both of those give us some examples of Exponential growth\par
which is shown here.\par
If we look at a function, an exponential function, in\par
this case two to the n.\par
It grows like the blue line here and as you can see it\par
grows a lot faster than any numeral.\par
For example, for n square here, this is going just up to\par
10, going from zero up to 10.\par
You can see how much faster two to the n grows already in\par
this range.\par
N square, we will briefly talk about it where we discuss\par
the notebooks.\par
Which leads us to Python for Cartesian powers.\par
So Cartesian powers and Exponentials, Cartesian power,\par
just like we talked about Cartesian products.\par
Implementation of Python before in Cartesian powers can be\par
implemented similarly using the product function in the\par
itertools library.\par
What we do is import itertools and then what we do is we\par
again use the itertools product function and we take a\par
set as we did before but instead of multiplying another\par
set, we just repeat the product some number of times.\par
Here we repeat it twice, so if we do that we get the set\par
five, nine, five, five, and so on.\par
So the Cartesian product of the set itself.\par
Exponents in Python are expressed using this double star.\par
For example, three star star two is three square.\par
If we print it we'll get nine and if you look at the\par
notebook, you'll actually see a couple of interactive\par
functions where you can compute exponential and see how\par
faster they grow then other sets.\par
I recommend that you play with it and\par
see how fast exponential growth grows.\par
I want to finish with a small legend called the\par
Chess-Rice legend.\par
Depending on what part of Asia you come from, you may be\par
familiar with slightly different versions of this legend.\par
They are all quite similar.\par
They all said that the game of Chess was invented by\par
poor yet clever peasant.\par
The game became very popular, very quickly.\par
Maybe the Candy Crush of years ago\par
and eventually got the attention of the king\par
and he really liked it.\par
He wanted to compensate the peasant for his invention and\par
he offered the peasant any reward he wished for.\par
The peasant, you know, being poor yet clever said\par
Well I'm a poor and humble farmer.\par
I don't need very much, just need a little bit of rice so\par
I can feed my family.\par
If you don't mind, maybe you can give me a single rice\par
grain on the first square, like we show here and\par
maybe then double on each subsequent square.\par
As you can see here on the bottom right, we have\par
on the next square give me two grains of rice.\par
As you can see here.\par
(laughs)\par
There are some pictures.\par
So what should we do?\par
- [Female] Say as you can see here\par
- [Speaker] Okay\par
- [Female] Just get it from two grains of rice.\par
- [Speaker] Okay so, let me start with, just one second.\par
Maybe I start here.\par
- [Female] Yes.\par
- [Speaker] So if you don't mind, okay I'm so sorry.\par
So if you don't mind kindly place a single rice grain on\par
the first square, like that and then\par
double on the subsequent squares so on the second\par
square just give me two.\par
On the next one, four and on the next one eight.\par
And that's all I'm asking for till you finish the\par
board here.\par
The king said oh, such a modest request.\par
Just a few grains of rice.\par
Of course, it's granted.\par
The king went on to grant the peasant his wish.\par
He placed one and two to the zero grain, one grain of rice\par
on the first square and two on the second square, which\par
is two to the one.\par
Four or two to two square on the third square and\par
so on and you can see the numbers here.\par
One, two, four, eight, and quickly the numbers grew.\par
By the time he got to the 64th square, he put two to\par
the 63 which is one with 18 zeros behind it.\par
This number is so large, I don't even know\par
what it is called, but just to give us a little bit of\par
an idea.\par
First and fully, it didn't look like this.\par
Probably looked like that but probably a lot worse.\par
And again to give us an idea, the world richest person\par
maybe Bill Gates, is worth 90 billion dollars so\par
that's roughly one.\par
If it was 100 million it would end here.\par
If we take the whole wealth of all Americans, it is roughly\par
90 times 10 to the 12th so it's the number that\par
would end here.\par
If you take the wealth of the whole, all the people, on\par
Earth then that would end here.\par
We have another 12 zeros to go so\par
clearly, in the end, it was quite a bit.\par
There are two endings to this story.\par
One is that the king went bankrupt and the peasant became\par
the new king.\par
The other one is that the king was so upset with the\par
sly peasant that he beheaded him.\par
So what's the moral of this story?\par
That be peasant or king, you have to beware of exponentials.\par
To end, maybe,\par
let's play a little bit of Jeopardy.\par
So we talked about counting and we give\par
several counting questions.\par
For example, the number of n-bit sequences, number of\par
subsets of one up to n, the number of functions from one\par
up to n to zero, one and all of them had the same answer.\par
It was two to the n.\par
Let's play a little bit of Jeopardy and I'll ask if the\par
answer is two to the two'th to the n, what is the question?\par
In other words, can you find a natural counting question\par
whose answer is double exponential?\par
We'll give the answer in the next lecture.\par
Before we finish, I want to discuss a small analogy.\par
If mentioned, a few analogies, in fact between number\par
operations and set operations.\par
We said that number addition corresponds to disjoint unions.\par
Numbers of subtraction corresponds to set complements.\par
Numbers of multiplication corresponds to Cartesian\par
product of sets and exponents corresponds to Cartesian\par
powers.\par
A very natural question to ask is which came first, the\par
number operations comes first or\par
the set operations comes first?\par
I would argue that's what we have actually been\par
discussing today.\par
Sets come first and the reason is that like all innovations\par
are necessity is the mother of math.\par
It seems quite reasonable that what people first\par
need to do is look at disjoint unions.\par
I give you one, you know, three chickens and I give you\par
another four chickens.\par
I give you then a set of seven chickens.\par
Look at these operations first then you find number\par
operations.\par
So, what we have studied is quite basic.\par
To summarize we talked about Cartesian Powers.\par
A to the n is the product of A times A times A and the\par
size of A to the n is the size of A\par
raised to the n'th power.\par
We talked about some applications.\par
Binary strings, subsets, functions, and Python.\par
We talked about how to\par
compute the K'th power of\par
the set and we also talked about exponents and\par
next time we are going to talk about some variations of\par
the different methods we have learned so far.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
What is the cardinality of the 4th Cartesian power of the set, S = 1, 3, 5?\par
\par
\tab\par
12\par
\par
\tab\par
64\par
\par
\tab\par
81\par
\par
\tab\par
128\par
\par
Submit\par
}
 