{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 - Welcome again, everyone.\par
In this sequence of lectures\par
we're going to talk about combinatorics,\par
which basically are somewhat\par
more advanced ways of counting structures.\par
And we'll start talking by\par
talking about permutations.\par
So a permutation is an ordering\par
of a set of objects.\par
And we are interested in counting\par
the number of permutations of n objects.\par
And the objects can of course be anything,\par
it won't matter to us what they are.\par
So they could be for example aardvarks,\par
or unicorns,\par
or dinosaurs.\par
But to make the talk\par
as exciting as possible,\par
we'll of course use letters.\par
So,\par
we'll first look at some small cases,\par
we'll look at what happens when we have\par
a small number of letters.\par
So here we have a single letter.\par
Let's just say call it a.\par
There's only one way to arrange that,\par
so that's number of permutations is 1.\par
If we have two letters, for example a and b,\par
then we can arrange them as ab or ba.\par
And there are two ways to do that.\par
If we have three letters,\par
for example abc, we can arrange them as\par
abc, acb, bac,\par
and so on up to cba.\par
And one can see that these are all the ways\par
to arrange the three letters so that\par
our number here is 2, 4, 6.\par
Okay.\par
And we're interested in counting this number\par
as the function of the number of objects that we have.\par
So let's see what happens we have two objects, a and b.\par
Then we can start\par
with a or b.\par
So we have two ways to start the sequence.\par
Two choices.\par
But once we started with a,\par
then the next object must be b.\par
And if we start with b,\par
the next object must be a.\par
So after each choice that we have,\par
each of the two choices that we start with,\par
we have a single choice to continue.\par
So if we view it as trees,\par
which as we said we can always do,\par
we can always view any collection of sequences as trees,\par
then the first option could be a and b,\par
and if we have a we can only continue with b.\par
If we start with b we can only continue with a.\par
And how many different sequences are there?\par
It's the total number of paths,\par
or total number of leaves in this tree.\par
And we have two branches at the beginning,\par
and then one branch later on.\par
So the total number is two times one which is two.\par
If we look at three objects,\par
abc for example,\par
then as we mentioned these are\par
all possible permutations of abc,\par
all possible ways to arrange those three letters.\par
And we can do it using three choices at the beginning,\par
two choices,\par
so for the first letter we can choose abc,\par
which is three choices,\par
once we choose a letter as the first one,\par
for example a,\par
we can follow it with one of\par
two different letters,\par
because we have used one out of the three.\par
And once we've chose two different letters like a and b\par
there's only one way to continue it,\par
so there's only one choice for the third letter.\par
And if we view it as trees,\par
then we have three options for the first letter, abc.\par
Once we've chose the first letter we can\par
branch in two ways, either b or c,\par
if the first one was a.\par
And we have one branch,\par
one possibility for the third letter.\par
And we can see that the\par
three branches at the beginning\par
corresponding to the three possibilities.\par
And then at the second level we have\par
two branches for each node,\par
because we have used one letter\par
and we can use one of the remaining two to continue.\par
And once we get to the next level here,\par
then we have used two letters\par
and there's only one branch because\par
we can only continue each of the sequences in one way.\par
So the total number of sequences,\par
or the total number of leaves here\par
is going to be three times two times one,\par
again by the product rule, is six.\par
So again, using the product rule again,\par
and therefore the number of permutations\par
in general of n objects is going to be\par
n possibilities for us to write the first symbol,\par
times n minus one to write the second one,\par
or n branches here times n minus one and so on.\par
N minus two after two times one,\par
and this is denoted by n factorial.\par
And it's called n factorial.\par
And to do that, as we said we use the product rule.\par
So now for n bigger than or equal to one,\par
as we said n factorial,\par
which is the number of permutations of n objects\par
is n times n minus one and so on\par
times two times one.\par
But what is zero factorial?\par
Because we cannot write n times n minus one after one\par
if we start with zero.\par
So what is the meaning of zero factorial?\par
So the question is\par
how many ways can you permute zero objects?\par
And I think maybe the difficulty we might have in\par
visualizing it is because we're trying to\par
see something that does not exist.\par
For example if we have two symbols, a and b,\par
then the possible permutations are ab and ba.\par
If we have just a, the permutations are just a.\par
But if we have nothing, no elements,\par
how many ways can you arrange that?\par
Can you arrange it in zero ways,\par
or one way, or more?\par
And I think that the difficulty is\par
exactly because we cannot visualize the empty set,\par
and the reason is because we stripped it out of all\par
content that we used to have.\par
So if you remember we're trying to visualize\par
in some sense, a void.\par
Which we remember, we said that\par
sequences were actually an abbreviation for,\par
for tuples.\par
So for example for ab,\par
we had had a tuple a,b,\par
we omitted the comma,\par
we omitted the parentheses\par
and we were just left with ab.\par
So once we do that,\par
when we get to the empty set\par
we have nothing to see.\par
But if we kept either all the commas,\par
or even just the parentheses,\par
then we'll be in better shape.\par
So here we have ab and ba,\par
those are the sequences where we're\par
keeping the parentheses.\par
But maybe dropping the commas in between or not,\par
that doesn't matter.\par
And then if we have a single element,\par
then we'll have just,\par
just this parentheses and a,\par
this is the one tuple\par
consisting of a,\par
and these are the two tuples ab and ba.\par
And we are asking how many tuples can we have,\par
that have a and b in some order,\par
how many tuples we can have\par
that have a.\par
And if we are looking at the empty set,\par
then this is the only tuple that we'll have,\par
it's just the tuple that contains nothing.\par
And clearly there's exactly one such tuple.\par
It's just this tuple, just like here it is one tuple.\par
So therefore, zero factorial,\par
none of these tuples is exactly one.\par
And this by the way is the exact same reason why\par
we define two to the zero to be one.\par
It's exactly the same here,\par
we're multiplying decreasing values,\par
whereas in the other case we're multiplying\par
the same value, but zero times\par
so it'd still get one.\par
So in this day and age people talk a lot about\par
what is a fact, and what is an alternative fact.\par
So we are going to discuss\par
an alternative factorial view.\par
So, so far we've counted\par
the number of ways\par
of arranging things, or in factorial,\par
we counted it by writing the terms from left to right.\par
So we wrote them left to write\par
and we counted how many elements,\par
how many different objects we can put\par
in the left-most location,\par
how many elements we can put in the second location,\par
and so on.\par
So we got n for the first one\par
times n minus one, times n minus two,\par
which is a little odd because the number's decreased\par
instead of increasing.\par
And what we'd like to do now, is look at\par
an alternative way of counting the number\par
of ways to arrange objects or\par
count n factorial,\par
by instead of looking from left to right\par
and counting how many different elements we\par
can put in each location,\par
we want to write the elements from smallest to largest,\par
and see in how many locations we can write them in.\par
So if we do that,\par
so let's call the elements known, for example\par
one, two, three, up to n.\par
So for the first element, we put the first object\par
there's only one location where we can put it wherever\par
it is, there's just one location,\par
let's say if we call it one we put it\par
in this location.\par
Now, once we do that, then the second element,\par
we have two possible locations.\par
We can put it to the left of the first one,\par
or to the right of the first one.\par
So we have two possibilities.\par
Let's say that we chose to write it to the left.\par
So now for the third object,\par
we have three relative locations.\par
We can put it to the left of the second element,\par
between the first two elements,\par
or to the right of the first element.\par
So we have three locations,\par
and let's say we put it\par
to the right of the first element.\par
So we have these locations now.\par
For the fourth element, we'll have\par
four locations to put it, either\par
here, here, here, or here, and so on.\par
So until we get to the nth element,\par
we'll have one possibility for the first location,\par
times two for the second one,\par
for the first smallest element,\par
times two for the next smallest, three,\par
and so on up to n,\par
and we'll get n factorial.\par
So this gives us an alternative way of\par
understanding how we get n factorial\par
which is in some sense a little nicer because\par
instead of going from n down, we're\par
going from one all the way up to n.\par
Alright.\par
Either definition, and maybe even\par
more closely the second definition,\par
leads us to a recursive definition of\par
n factorial,\par
which is as follows.\par
So n factorial is n times n minus one and so on\par
up to two times one,\par
or if you want you can write it, as we saw\par
one up to n, up to n.\par
And either way you do it,\par
it's going to be n times\par
the product of the first n minus one element.\par
So it's n times n minus one factorial.\par
And this is true for all n which is\par
bigger than or equal to one.\par
So, in other words,\par
it also holds for one, and mainly one,\par
one factorial is going to be one times zero factorial.\par
That's because zero factorial was\par
defined to be one,\par
and you can actually even extend it beyond one\par
to negative values.\par
So we can see this\par
recursion here,\par
so for\par
for zero,\par
we get that n factorial is\par
one, and just one here.\par
If you want to get to one factorial\par
you multiply one by one.\par
If you want to get two factorial,\par
you multiply two,\par
three factorial, you multiply two factorial by three.\par
And to get four factorial you take three factorial\par
which is six, multiply by four,\par
by five, by six, and so on.\par
Now,\par
what we want to do next is go over\par
several applications of this formula\par
and count a number of basic permutations\par
and do several examples of permutations.\par
So, first of all, suppose\par
you're planning a trip to three cities,\par
and you wonder how many ways you can\par
arrange your trips,\par
and how many different orders can you\par
visit those cities.\par
Let's say Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco.\par
So you can go Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco,\par
we can go San Francisco, San Diego, Los Angeles,\par
and so on.\par
So how many ways can you arrange your trip?\par
So clearly there is going to be three factorial\par
because there are three ways of arranging those objects,\par
which is three times two times one,\par
which is six.\par
Now, another application, basic application,\par
of permutations is an anagram of a word\par
is a rearrangement of the letters.\par
So the question is,\par
how many anagrams\par
does a word with five distinct letters have?\par
So, for example, we take PEARS.\par
And then it has, SPEAR,\par
which is a word,\par
or E-A-R-P-S.\par
Those are the same letters rearranged,\par
and we are not insisting that\par
that will be an actual English word.\par
So how many anagrams or how many permutations\par
do those five letters have?\par
Then again, we're looking at how many permutations\par
do five objects have.\par
And that's this five factorial,\par
maybe five times four times three times two times one,\par
which is 120.\par
Now, we can look at constrained anagrams of,\par
for example, PEARS.\par
So what if the letters A and R must stay adjacent,\par
like they are originally,\par
and, furthermore, in order,\par
namely A followed by R.\par
So, for example we're counting words like PARSE,\par
A followed immediately by R,\par
or SEPAR, S-E-P-A-R,\par
which is not a word but a sequence of these\par
five letters, where\par
A is followed immediately by R.\par
So, if you would like to count how many such\par
anagrams there are,\par
then one could observe\par
that what we are looking at are permutations of\par
P, E, and then AR combined, and S.\par
So, for example, PARSE is\par
P, followed by AR, followed by S\par
and followed by E,\par
and SEPAR is SE, followed,\par
S then E then P, and then AR.\par
So the number of such permutations is\par
we have four objects, and the number is four factorial,\par
which is four times three times two times one,\par
which is 24.\par
Now, if we would like to count the number of anagrams\par
where AR are adjacent, but they can appear in any order,\par
namely AR or RA,\par
then we're counting things like SPARE,\par
AR are adjacent,\par
A comes before R,\par
or R-A-E-S-P,\par
where A and R are adjacent but\par
R comes before A.\par
And now we notice there are\par
two ways to order those letters,\par
AR or RA.\par
And for each order, as we have seen before,\par
there are going to be 24 ways.\par
So the total number by the product rule,\par
is two times 24, which is 48.\par
Because these,\par
these two types of anagrams are distinct.\par
Those that have AR and those that have RA\par
are different, so they add up\par
and by the multiplication rule\par
we get two times 24, which is 48.\par
Now, what if we wanted anagrams where\par
A and R are not adjacent?\par
Then, for example,\par
A-E-S-P-R and\par
S-R-P-A-E.\par
Then we can note that\par
what we could do is we could look at\par
all possible anagrams of pairs,\par
which in the previous line we calculated to be 120.\par
And we can look at,\par
we can consider all anagrams where A and R\par
are adjacent and in any order,\par
which here we calculated to be 48.\par
And we can just look at the compliment of this set\par
relative to all possible permutations.\par
And then by the subtraction rule, we get\par
the total number of permutations or anagrams\par
where A and R are not adjacent is\par
five factorial, is the total number of permutations\par
minus 48, so 120 minus 48,\par
namely, 72.\par
Now let's look at more additional constrained permutations.\par
So how many ways can you\par
organize three distinct boys\par
and two distinct girls in a row\par
or in a line?\par
So if there are no constraints,\par
then you have these five kids,\par
three boys and two girls.\par
You can organize them any way you want.\par
So together, we have five kids and\par
we want to arrange them so they are\par
three plus two factorial or five factorial,\par
or 120 ways.\par
Now, what if you want the boys and girls\par
to alternate?\par
Then necessarily you have to have\par
boy, girl, boy, girl, boy.\par
So this is the arrangement.\par
So now we can arrange the boys any way we want,\par
and we can arrange the girls any way we want.\par
So the boys we can arrange in three factorial ways\par
and the girls in two factorial ways,\par
and then any combination is possible.\par
So, again, by the product rule,\par
we'll get three factorial times two factorial\par
which is six times two which is twelve,\par
a lot less than this permutation\par
because we insisted on the arrangement\par
of boy, girl, boy, girl,\par
and this is very restrictive.\par
How about boys together and girls together?\par
For example here, three boys followed by two girls,\par
or you could have two girls,\par
two girls followed by three boys.\par
So now we have two ways to arrange,\par
to decide if the boys come first or\par
the girls come first.\par
And then we have three factorial ways to arrange the boys,\par
and two factorial ways to arrange the girls,\par
and we get the number we got before\par
times two, namely 24.\par
And what if the boys and girls are unconstrained again,\par
as they were here at the beginning,\par
but the orientation and the left to right\par
or right to left does not matter?\par
Namely if we have the same arrangement from,\par
an arrangement where this boy is here on the left,\par
and so on, we count it as the same\par
as the arrangement where they're organized\par
in the reverse way.\par
Then the number's going to be 120,\par
or five factorial divided by two,\par
which is 60.\par
Now, you can also arrange objects in a circle,\par
as we have seen in the\par
title's picture\par
for this talk.\par
And so for example, we ask\par
how many ways can you arrange five people\par
at a round table?\par
Then you need to specify whether\par
rotation matters or not.\par
So for example here we have ABCDE,\par
like five people named, say, ABCDE.\par
And they're sitting in this arrangement.\par
And here is another arrangement,\par
again ABCDE arranged if you go counter-clockwise.\par
But these two are different in the sense that\par
we just shifted everyone by two.\par
So it's the same arrangement where B follows A\par
and C follows B, both of them but\par
they're shifted by two here.\par
This one has just cyclically shifted\par
to the left twice.\par
So we need to decide whether these two\par
you consider to be the same arrangement,\par
and these two\par
everyone sits next to the same people\par
on the left and the right.\par
But do you consider them different?\par
If you consider them different,\par
these two arrangements\par
then we'll be back to counting things in a line\par
because you have five possibilities\par
to put here, times four times three\par
times two times one.\par
So again, five factorial or 120.\par
On the other hand,\par
if you don't care about rotations,\par
you only care about the relative\par
sitting of the people,\par
then you consider these two arrangements\par
to be the same,\par
in that case you can see that every\par
five permutations that you get here\par
you'll consider to be identical.\par
So the total number is going to be\par
five factorial divided by five,\par
namely four factorial, or 24.\par
So, hopefully,\par
this gives you some idea about different\par
applications of permutations,\par
and I want to just end by talking about\par
n factorial and how it grows.\par
So here's a table that shows n factorial for n\par
going from one up to 20,\par
so one factorial is one,\par
two factorial is two,\par
three factorial is six.\par
And then 24, 120,\par
and seven and 20.\par
And as you can see,\par
these numbers grow quite fast.\par
And the reason they grow quite fast\par
is because they actually grow faster\par
than an exponential.\par
Because exponential is two times two times two,\par
and these are two, it grows as\par
one times two times three.\par
And you keep increasing.\par
And luckily, there's a way to approximate this rough,\par
they call it Stirling's Approximations\par
or Stirling's Formula.\par
And it says that\par
n factorial grows,\par
while it will grow faster than exponential,\par
faster than two to the n or e to the n,\par
but less than n to the n as we can see,\par
because it's one times two up to n,\par
all the terms are less than n.\par
But, more precisely, it grows\par
the rough is n over e to the n.\par
And even more precisely,\par
it grows like n over e to the n\par
times the square root of two pi n.\par
And this approximation is quite good,\par
for example if you look here, if you look at\par
n equals to ten,\par
then here is n factorial,\par
and here is Stirling's Approximation.\par
And you can see that Stirling's Approximation\par
is off by 0.0002,\par
or 0.0003 percent.\par
So already for n equals to ten it's actually\par
very, very accurate.\par
And here is a graph that shows n factorial,\par
relative to it's Stirling Approximation.\par
And as you can see here,\par
the graph already forms maybe even three\par
if you look at this table, if you look here.\par
It looks pretty much the same.\par
So this is a very good approximation.\par
And in the python notebooks for this class\par
you can actually calculate, we have\par
creative functions that calculate\par
Stirling's Approximation and factorial.\par
And you can play with them and see how good\par
the approximation is.\par
So, so far we have talked about\par
permutations of objects,\par
and we talked about n factorial,\par
and what we would like to do in the next lecture is\par
talk about partial permutations.\par
See you then.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
POLL\par
\par
A student lists the number of permutations for \{1,2\} as (1,1), (1,2), (2,2), (2,1). What is wrong with this student\rquote s answer?\par
\par
\tab\par
In a permutation, each item appears exactly once\par
\par
\tab\par
The permutations should be ordered (1,1), (1,2), (2,1), (2,2)\par
\par
\tab\par
(1,2) is the only permutation\par
\par
\tab\par
1 must be the first element in each of the four permutations\par
}
 